<<<<<<< HEAD
**<u>Baltic Fury 2 – Borscht on Bornholm</u>**

**<u>Summary by fitzpatv, Dec 2022</u>**
=======
**<span class="underline">Baltic Fury 2 – Borscht on Bornholm</span>**

**<span class="underline">Summary by fitzpatv, Dec 2022</span>**
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0

The Soviets (under my control for the first time) move to capture
Bornholm and use it as an advanced air and SAM base. NATO decides not to
write the island off as indefensible and makes an all-out effort to hold
it.

Note that this scenario uses ‘Realistic Submarine Communications’. This
means that subs go off-grid and can’t be given orders if they go deep,
making no allowance for their skippers’ initiative. Best bet is to stay
shallow, which is often compulsory in the Baltic, anyway.

This was also the first time I’ve played since downloading the update
that came with the Falklands DLC. As a result, the performance of SAMs
and A2A missiles varied from previous norms – more later.

To facilitate their mission, the Russians have a substantial naval
force. There is a screen of 5 diesel subs in the Western Baltic. Two ASW
groups feature an assortment of Grisha, Pauk and Parchim corvettes to
the E of the island, backed-up by 4 Krivak frigates (all sailing
singly). Further out is an SAG, consisting of the powerful frigate
Neustrashimyy, 2 Sovremennys and the cruiser Grozny. A squadron of 4
Matka hydrofoils with Advanced Styxes is SE of Bornholm and five
similarly-armed Tarantuls are coming down from the NE. An Alpinist AGI
is off the Polish coast S of the island and is best gotten out of the
way.

At Kaliningrad’s Baltysk Naval Base, there are 5 Ropucha, 14 assorted
Polnochny and 2 Alligator amphibs and 20 hovercraft (7 large Pomorniks
and 13 smaller Aists), led by the Ivan Rogov class LPD Vasily Trushin,
which carries 3 Ondatya landing craft. Close escort for this convoy is
provided by a Kanin-class destroyer, 10 Stenka patrol craft and 11
minesweepers. A fifth Ropucha is outside the harbour, as there isn’t
enough docking space for him (Russians refer to their ships as male).
Finally, the supply ship Vilyuy is coming down from the Leningrad area,
carrying stores and engineers for the garrison once the island has been
secured. The intention is to ferry-in some Grumbles later (after the
scenario expiry time).

Soviet air strength is greatly reduced from the previous scenario,
partly because most of the front-line aircraft are deemed to be
operating over Denmark and Germany under separate command (this region
is covered by an exclusion zone, which keeps-out ALL Soviet units). Your
fighter /assets are limited to 16 Flogger Ks at Donskoye, near
Kaliningrad and 28 shiny new Flanker Gs at Tukuma in Latvia. The problem
with the latter is that (as well as being remote from the area of
operations) they are crewed by cadets. They are also considered High
Value Aircraft and cost 5VP if lost.

For strike operations, you have no less than 72 MiG-27s and 8 Fitters at
bases in the Baltic Republics. However, these are daytime-only aircraft
and the scenario starts in darkness at 6pm. Most are armed with bombs
and rockets, though some Fitters carry Kegler short-ranged ARMs. As NATO
has only Stingers on Bornholm, which are useless below 200’, low-flying
seems an option.

Three Mainstays are available for AEW and there is the usual healthy
supply of jamming planes. Four Mails provide ASW capability to
supplement some Russian and Polish choppers which are only really useful
for patrolling the approaches to Kaliningrad. You also have a couple of
Bear recon types and some SAR aircraft (yes, the Downed Pilot handicap
gets transferred to the Soviets in this scenario, despite their total
lack of concern for such things when the AI is in charge).

The assault on Bornholm is to be conducted by two brigades of paratroops
and one of Naval Infantry. To carry the former and their artillery, you
have a fleet of 24 Cub, 12 Curl, 12 Coke and 3 Cock transports, spread
between Chkalovsk and Khrabrovo airbases, near Kaliningrad. The Naval
Infantry are at Baltysk and can be carried by the amphibs, along with
the SAMs of the 141st AA Missile Brigade (which, you are told, need to
be on Bornholm by the end of the game).

Everything has to be loaded using the Cargo rules. In short, the
paratroops and their gear fit onto the transport planes, with the heavy
equipment needing to go on the Cokes and Cocks, while the ships can
carry most, but not all of the other troops. The Vasily Trushin relies
on her Ondatyas (lousy capacity) to offload when not in port and the
SAMs are best loaded on the Ropucha landing ships. The four Cokes at
Chkalovsk have Cargo loadouts and can’t actually take anything – best to
leave them at base. There are some fuel issues, which will be discussed
later.

14/2/94 18:00Z: A Bremen-class frigate with Harpoons and decent SAM
defence was located off Neustadt naval base and lots of shipping W of
Bornholm, fleeing the area of operations.

Five Spetsnaz teams in Denmark couldn’t move due to the Exclusion Zone.
One took-out two radars near Skrydstrup, but this scored no points and
they had no other clear targets within range. This situation persisted
and they played no further role.

I sent a couple of Floggers towards Bornholm and one shot down a Seeker
UAV that was patrolling over the island for 2VP (standard for NATO
aircraft in this scenario). There was no other NATO air activity beyond
a Sentry deep in the Exclusion Zone. Evidence was that there were no air
defences on Bornholm beyond Stingers and AA guns.

At 18:30, the main convoy finished loading and headed for Bornholm at 12
knots, so as to keep station.

A Foxbat recon plane overflew Bornholm at 17k’ (above Stinger range),
but could not detect any targets.

One of the ships fleeing the scene was moving at 12 knots to the others’
nine and was probably the minelayer Falster, reported to have laid some
eggs around the island. The Kilo B-224 was conveniently placed to waylay
her.

There was a stated need to send two Halo and two huge Harke choppers
from Khrabrovo to Swidwin in Poland, so I moved them accordingly,
splitting the risk by leaving an interval between departures.

A submarine attacked the ASW Group SE of Bornholm, sinking a Pauk
corvette for -5VP. I’d ordered the Krivaks to support the lighter ASW
vessels from a distance. A Grisha slowed to get a sonar fix on the enemy
SSK and the frigate Rezkiy then sank her with one of the deadly
long-ranged Silex torpedo-carrying missiles for 25VP. Turned-out that
she was the Danish Nordkaperen, which had served me so well last time.
Couldn’t help some regrets.

One of our four Matkas took-out a Coastal ACSR radar on Bornholm with an
Improved Styx. I figured that, as these weapons were outranged by NATO’s
Harpoons, they were best expended against land targets. A basic SRS
radar then lit-up on the island and not only the Falster, but a trawler
(presumably used for AGI work or minelaying) gave themselves away by
going Engaged Defensive, while the chaff of neutral fishing boats did
not. The Matkas moved to engage.

19:00: B-224 torpedoed and sank the Falster for 5VP.

A Fencer E overflew Bornholm and found 3 batteries of 105mm howitzers, 6
assorted armoured units, a 40mm AA and three other ground targets
besides the SRS. Big improvement on the Foxbat, with good endurance to
boot.

20:00: A Matka destroyed the SRS and damaged a 105. He then went RTB due
to expending his Styxes. As he did so, he was sunk by a German U-Boat.

B-224 disposed of the dodgy trawler. The surviving Matkas and the
arriving Tarantuls finished-off the artillery and thinned-out the Danish
Scorpion tanks a little. Overrode their RTB reflex by adjusting Doctrine
for Withdrawal/Retreat to ignore ammo expenditure, then sent the Matkas
inshore to bombard targets with their 76mm guns. The Tarantuls withdrew.

21:00: The Harkes and Halos arrived at Swidwin, but this scored no
points and could have been omitted.

U-22 was spotted by a Mail doing a ludicrous 11 knots E of Bornholm.
Having had no success looking for the other German sub, Rezkiy sank her
from range. It needed two Silex shots, leaving the Krivak with just one
left.

Two Matkas bombarded Bornholm, destroying some AA, APCs and all but one
of the Scorpions.

22:00: I realised that I had some unused Ropuchas at Baltysk and loaded
them, sending them after the convoy at 16 knots.

The Matkas finished the Scorpions and headed for base.

U-28 was detected S of Bornholm. I wanted to use a Mail, but Rezkiy
auto-engaged with his last Silex, did the job and went RTB. I overrode
this and sent him to add his 32 Gecko SAMs to the convoy escort.

U-9 was then found E of Bornholm. Again, the Mail was beaten to the
punch by a Silex from the Krivak Letuchiy. Those things are lethal. At
+102, the score was now a Minor Defeat.

The Grozny engaged the approaching Bremen with his Shaddock battery. All
16 Russian missiles were destroyed by 16 Sea Sparrows and 8 RIM-116s,
which was pretty good shooting by the AI and left the German ship with
more SAMs than I’d hoped.

23:00: Meanwhile, the convoy had been moving steadily W, covered at
first by ASW choppers. HMS Unicorn was then detected rather too close to
the NW. A Stenka had considerable difficulty identifying her as she went
Engaged Defensive, but fish didn’t behave like that. Two other Stenkas
joined-in, along with two Polish choppers under AI control and a Mail
under mine. The British sub was as slippery as an eel, but was
eventually caught and sunk.

U-16, which had previously sunk the Matka, re-surfaced S of Bornholm and
took-out a Grisha III. Another frustrating hunt ensued, with 2 Mails, a
Grisha II, a Pauk and a Foxtrot finally exacting retribution. It proved
useful to take ASW /assets off Auto Evasion, especially as subs will dive
and go temporarily off the comms net if you don’t. That was all the NATO
subs sunk.

15/2/94 00:00: Four Yurka-class minesweepers arrived off Bornholm and
began looking for mines. Though none are listed on Scenario Platforms,
trust me, there are plenty there…

01:00: Intel suggested that NATO planned a major air operation after
<<<<<<< HEAD
daybreak – what a surprise!. It was possible to request extra Floggers
=======
daybreak – what a surprise\!. It was possible to request extra Floggers
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0
from the base at Pyarnu, Estonia (a city I’ve visited) but this costs
lots of VP on a sliding scale, depending on how many squadrons you ask
for, so I didn’t bother. You can also request air support from the Poles
(Fishbeds and Fitters) but their lack of quality dissuaded me. Then
again, they cost no VP if lost, but I didn’t know that at the time. For
now, I ordered the Stenkas and two of the minesweeper squadrons to stay
clear of Bornholm, while consolidating all escorts with SAMs around the
convoy. I’d also sent four Grumble battalions down the coast from
Kaliningrad towards Kolobrzeg in NW Poland at the start of the game, in
the hope that they would be able to enfilade the approaches to Bornholm
(people forget that they are MOBILE SAMs). All ASW and missile craft
were already withdrawing E.

At 1:48, there was another warning about Danish missile boats sortying
from small harbours where they’d been hiding. These weren’t indicated on
Scenario Platforms…

02:00: Decided to initiate the airborne operation before NATO air
activity got underway.

Enemy PCFGs began to appear in the approaches to Kiel and Copenhagen.
<<<<<<< HEAD
Thankfully, they weren’t as close as initial indications suggested!.
=======
Thankfully, they weren’t as close as initial indications suggested\!.
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0
Contacts resolved as 6 Danish Willemoes boats to the NW and 6 German
Gepards leading 4 Danish Flyvefisken to the W. The Danes carried
Harpoons, while the Gepards only had shorter-ranged Exocets, but made-up
for it with lots of RIM-116s for air defence. Bremen brought-up the
rear. I ordered some of my Sepal long-ranged SSM batteries around
Kaliningrad to engage.

Soviet paras landed all over Bornholm, meeting little initial
resistance. With their artillery and armour gone, the few light Danish
units encountered went down quickly. The Desantniki moved fast to set-up
a helipad on the island. The transport aircraft all made it home safely,
though the Cokes had limited endurance and had to be diverted to other
bases in Poland and elsewhere. The howitzers they brought-in were to be
vital.

NATO missile boats Harpooned the four Yurkas S of the island, costing me
20VP.

03:00: Our initial volley of Sepals was disappointing, with just two
Willemoes boats sunk with 16 shots. The Gepards proved capable of
screening the Flyvefisken with SAMs and it wasn’t possible to give
Sepals waypoints to circumvent this. The AI was also very lucky with
spoof rolls and malfunctions.

Fanning-out across Bornholm, the Desantniki took Ronne airport for 250VP
and the harbour for 100 more. We captured a Dragonfly light attack
plane, a Little Bird chopper and 3 Cessnas at the airbase (despite my
fears, they didn’t sortie regardless) and also discovered two military
trawlers in the harbour.

Given the success of the landings, I decided that I didn’t urgently need
the troops en route by sea and turned the Polnochnyy and Alligators back
for the time being, given the impending aerial threat. As the SAMs were
needed, the Ropuchas continued with the Trushin and other escorts, with
the Vilyuy still some way behind.

A second Sepal strike on the Willemoes craft got just one with four
shots (a 30% spoof roll and two malfunctions). I muttered to the AI that
it couldn’t be lucky forever and fired some more.

Meanwhile, the Grumbles were having trouble with the game’s lousy land
navigation system and were getting unaccountably stuck NE of Kolbrzeg. I
decided that their current position would do and halted them, moving the
convoy (less detached ships) under their reassuring umbrella. With
plenty of time, I could wait-out the air strike there.

04:00: Another four Sepals sank two more Willemoes. The score of +502
was still only Average.

<<<<<<< HEAD
B-224 ambushed and sank all six Gepards!. That took the sub’s score to
=======
B-224 ambushed and sank all six Gepards\!. That took the sub’s score to
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0
eight ships and was helped by the AI mindlessly sailing on into the
torpedoes, which were fired as near as I could manage. That got rid of
the enemy SAM cover, exposing the Flyvefisken. Kilos can be really
dangerous when well-used.

The two Danish auxiliary trawlers predictably sortied from Ronne, but
were sunk by our land-based artillery for 10VP.

The surviving Willemoes survived her fourth Sepal, but her outrageous
luck finally ran out and more missiles sank three of the Flyvefisken as
they belatedly tried to escape.

05:00: The last Flyvefisken, the Skaden, was wrecked by a Sepal before
she could get away. Bremen also withdrew and did not come back. The
naval attack was pretty suicidal, which was why I didn’t try anything
like it in the last scenario.

It was now dawn. Four Flankers had arrived over the convoy to augment
the Grumbles and the ships’ SAMs. There seemed a risk that NATO wouldn’t
attack because they hadn’t detected us, leaving a threat in being until
we moved towards Bornholm, so I sent a Sonya minesweeper ahead to do her
thing and tempt them out. When nothing happened, I sent four Haze
minesweeping choppers up from Khrabrovo, intending to re-base them at
the Helipad. Arriving, they found that the pad had room for only one
helicopter. Two re-based to the destroyer Zorkiy and the other made for
Poland.

06:00: A Fencer E found a Bofors battery on Bornholm and artillery
disposed of it. Enemy infantry then began to appear for what became an
extended and frustrating game of Whackamole. Desantniki foot patrols
would locate the remarkably elusive Danes and the howitzers and mobile
mortars would take them out in one-sided fashion. This went on for quite
some time…

Meanwhile, the Sonya and Haze began clearing mines.

09:00: We were notified that a large air battle was in progress over
Jutland and Zeeland. At 9:20, the warning was upgraded to Amber as the
Soviet aerial screen came under increasing pressure. I launched eight
Flankers. At 9:35, the alert went Red and I reinforced with four
Floggers and four more Flankers. Our comrades promised that the screen
would be restored in an hour or so.

10:00: A totally ridiculous number of NATO aircraft began pouring into
view, with Phantom ICE and Fulcrums leading F-16s, Drakens and maybe 30
Tornado IDS with HARMs and Kormorans (56 and 52 fired). A desperate
melee resulted in heavy losses for both sides. The Soviets lost 4
choppers (including the three retiring minesweepers), 4 Floggers and 3
Flankers, while the Sovremenny Nastoychivyy was mortally struck (30VP)
and her classmate Bespokoynyy damaged with flooding. NATO lost an F-16,
2 Drakens, 4 Phantom ICE, 3 Fulcrums and 5 Tornado IDS in this initial
phase. Two Grumble battalions were disabled by HARM strikes, but their
fire (and the missiles they attracted) was mostly responsible for
averting disaster. The enemy concentrated on the warships and the
transports and minesweepers were left unscathed.

Meanwhile, more NATO aircraft bombed Bornholm and inflicted significant
losses on Soviet ground forces, which cost no points.

The 11 Soviet aircraft lost generated 8 Downed Pilots. This offset the
Floggers scoring no VP for NATO.

This was my first taste of the new SAM/A2A missile settings. In general,
hitting incoming missiles seems no harder than before, presumably
because they fly in a straight line and don’t try to evade. However, it
has become much harder to hit aircraft and SARH missiles, in particular,
almost always go blind when fired at any sort of range, as all the
target has to do is turn side-on (it works every time for the AI and is
hard to replicate manually). SAMs have become almost useless against
low-flying planes – here, we had Grumbles needing 1% to hit Fulcrums
flying nearby at 80’. Rear shots are more effective, but it is difficult
to manoeuvre for them in a stramash like this with dozens of planes
involved and missiles flying everywhere. Overall, while the changes
might make the game truer to life, they have also made air combat a good
deal more random, as you really need to be lucky to hit anything. This
can, of course, work both ways. Personally, I feel the loss of control.

I mostly kept my Flankers out of trouble by having them withdraw at
Afterburner before getting enmeshed in the melee, but this policy
<<<<<<< HEAD
couldn’t be absolute due to the need to combat the blizzard of HARMs and
Kormorans. Thankfully, the SAMs managed to get the vast majority of
=======
couldn’t be absolute due to the need to combat the blizzard of HARMs
and Kormorans. Thankfully, the SAMs managed to get the vast majority of
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0
them.

As the attack abated, I sent-out my SAR planes in the vain hope that it
would do some good. In the end, I rescued one pilot for 3VP. The maximum
time of one hour just isn’t enough, especially if the plane is lost near
the end of the hour.

Several British Tornado F.3s, plus more Fulcrums and Phantom ICE made a
late appearance from Laage and downed a hapless Polish Bryza patrol
plane (under AI control), but this cost no points.

Some Floggers engaged a pack of Tornado IDS fighters and F-16s E of
Bornholm as I counter-attacked with everything available. They achieved
five kills for one loss (inevitable downed pilot), which wasn’t bad for
a bunch of MiG-23s.

Flankers, helped by some MANPADs, then cleared away two Drakens and two
Phantom recon planes over Bornholm. It was annoying to need so much
effort to kill targets that were just mindlessly turning in circles, but
you can’t stop your missiles going blind or guarantee a rear shot under
such circumstances. This had better reflect real-life, as it really
detracts from my enjoyment.

11:00: I could have just withdrawn and taken an Average result, but
gambled that there wouldn’t be a second strike. All escort ships with no
SAM defence remaining were moved E, while the transports headed for
Bornholm, including those withdrawn earlier. Naval escort was limited to
the Neustrashimyy and the minesweepers.

Soon afterwards, groups of Drakens and Alpha Jets made for Bornholm. Two
pairs each of Flankers and Floggers engaged and were countered by a mob
of Tornado F.3s and Phantoms from Laage. We lost 3 Floggers (all with
downed pilots) for 5 Drakens and 5 Alpha Jets. The strike did no real
damage. Again, a high percentage of missiles went blind.

I tried using subs to pick-up the downed pilots. This was often done by
US subs in WW2 but, even when I surfaced a sub, the game wasn’t having
it. Another flaw of that wretched script.

12:00: A Bryza got the high-end NATO CAP excited and paid the price.
Alarmingly, the interception meant the Fulcrums and Phantoms got wind of
my retiring SAR choppers (would NATO really attack rescue planes?). In
the event, the Hazes were saved by the Grumbles, which downed two
Fulcrums, which kept flying in circles on Engaged Defensive until their
luck finally ran out.

13:00: A tense time for the Soviets. A Haze, several minesweepers, a
couple of fighters and the Neustrashimyy covered the Trushin, Ropuchas
and the Vilyuy as they inched towards Bornholm.

15:00: As Trushin arrived, he promptly went RTB for no conceivable
reason. Happily, I was able to override this by Unassigning him and then
launched his three Ondatyas. As the LPD and Ropuchas entered the marked
(and mined) zone, they scored 25VP each and were told that they needed
to stay there for four hours to unload. At +698, it was now a Minor
Victory.

Despite prodigious minesweeping efforts, two of the Ondatyas promptly
hit mines, one being sunk and the other damaged. Unloading their
derisory cargo (which then couldn’t swim ashore), they returned to the
Trushin.

Now aware of the VP Schedule, I launched the seven Pomorniks from
Baltysk. Decided that it wasn’t worth using the shorter-ranged,
low-capacity Aists. This proved wise.

The Ropuchas went inshore behind a minesweeper and manually unloaded the
SAMs which were, mercifully, able to move inland. This scored no VP, but
did give us some SAM cover.

17:00: Somehow, despite all precautions, Vilyuy managed to strike two
mines en route for Ronne harbour. These did over 25% damage and
triggered her Withdraw Doctrine, which I angrily overrode. Despite the
game’s best efforts, she reached port and scored 100VP. It was now a
Major Victory.

18:00: Travelling as suggested in the Briefing at 55 knots, the
Pomorniks abruptly went RTB. Thankfully, I was looking at the time. I
had to individually Unassign them, re-base them to Kolobrzeg, then order
them to Bornholm. They eventually arrived, but scored no points. I
manually unloaded their cargo and they then proceeded without incident
to Kolobrzeg.

About this time, the Whackamole on Bornholm finally petered-out, though
I suspect there were still Danish troops at large on the island.

19:00: Got a message that the Trushin and the Ropuchas had finished
unloading and could withdraw. Each category scored 25VP, not each ship.
I guess that the unload time was realistic, though no cargo was actually
transferred from the Trushin (waste of effort loading it). The ships
headed E at Full, along with the minesweepers (as I now knew a safe zone
for the Polnochnyy and Alligators).

22:00: The 12 Polnochnyy A and B transports arrived, scoring a total of
300VP and taking me into Triumph territory. There still remained the
worry of a second strike.

23:00: The two Alligators arrived for 50 more VP. I didn’t bother
unloading any of these ships because of mine risk, lack of VP reward,
risk of dumping units in the water and a desire to limit the clutter on
the map.

16/2/94 00:00: The two lumbering Polnochny C transports arrived for 50
more VP. By now, the Bespokoynyy had brought her flooding under control
and was well on her way to Kronshtadt with 41.6% damage.

04:30: There was no further award for offloading transports, so they all
withdrew.

06:00: The scenario ended as a Triumph, with a score of +1,268.

The USSR lost a destroyer, 2 corvettes, a missile hydrofoil, 4
minesweepers, a landing craft, 3 Flankers, 8 Floggers, 5 choppers, 88
ground and 5 Grumble elements, plus 2 Polish patrol planes. A total of
16 Russian aircraft losses generated 14 downed pilots (a ridiculously
unlucky 87.5%), of whom just one was rescued.

NATO lost 6 diesel subs, 16 missile boats, a minelayer, 3 trawlers, 37
planes, a UAV, 4 radars, 200 ground elements, 6 MANPAD elements and 33
mines.

Overall, another long and challenging scenario, despite the emphatic
<<<<<<< HEAD
win. The NATO air strike was truly scary stuff! As expected, it was
=======
win. The NATO air strike was truly scary stuff\! As expected, it was
>>>>>>> f32eacaab95d742dbe089682d4170b77360282d0
interesting running the Soviet side and it gave me extra insight into
the capabilities of some of the units I’ve been fighting for so long (I
hadn’t realised that a Foxtrot’s sonar can’t identify a fish at three
paces). Kilos, Silex and Fencer Es were big successes and it was fun to
use the Grumbles as truly mobile SAMs (I should probably have moved a
few more up as I could have done).

Next time, I try to ruin what I’ve just achieved as NATO (why the
scenario is called Warsaw Uprising I have no idea, judging from the
Briefing). They say that schizophrenia is a state of mind...
