<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image1.png" style="width:3.05208in;height:1.79167in" />

**The United States Air Force**

The United States Air Force (USAF) in 1994 had historically been reduced
by 30% from a 1986 strength of around 608,000 to size of 426,000 and was
shrinking rapidly. In Northern Fury, due to increased tensions in Europe
and around the globe, the strength although reduced from the mid ‘80s,
but by a much smaller margin. The Northern Fury USAF has about 600,000
personnel in 1994 and this number has been stable for the past two
years. Many of the changes implemented by the various BRAC (Base
Realignment and Closure Commission) reviews (1988, 1991, 1993) do not
occur, realignment where it was reasonable happened but most bases
remain open, specifics are noted where it makes a difference.
Structurally the changes that occurred historically remain extant
because they made sense in an evolving world. The fundamental structure
of the USAF looks like this:

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image2.png" style="width:7.39626in;height:2.38193in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image3.png" style="width:4.46429in;height:2.5in" />

**Air Combat Command**

Air Combat Command (ACC), headquartered at Langley AFB, Virginia, is the
primary provider of combat air forces to reinforce regional commands
around the globe or to defend North America. ACC’s main focus is the
training and preparation of combat ready fighter, bomber,
reconnaissance, rescue and Battle management forces for rapid deployment
and employment. This is a large command with over 230,000 regular and
reserve personnel and over 1,000 aircraft.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image4.png" style="width:7.44783in;height:4.26454in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image5.jpg" style="width:7.28472in;height:3.52549in" />

**Air Mobility Command**

Air Mobility Command (AMC) is another very large command which provides
the USAF and the US Armed Forces as a whole with global rapid deployment
options. This command is constantly busy performing air lift, air
refueling, aeromedical evacuations and many other minor tasks every day
of the year. With 125,000 personnel and about 925 airframes, this is the
second largest command in the Air Force.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image6.png" style="width:7.05139in;height:6.00937in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image7.jpg" style="width:6.32292in;height:4.20499in" />

**Pacific Air Forces**

Pacific Air Forces (PACAF) are the USAF’s forward deployed combat and
support elements in the Pacific theatre. Although relatively small with
46,000 personnel and about 330 aircraft, this still represents a
significant force in the region, over 260 of the aircraft being front
line combat types. One of the major tasks performed by PACAF, besides
deterrence, is to train with Asian and Australian Air Forces as a way of
leveraging the combat power of those nations toward a unified command
system.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image8.png" style="width:7.27361in;height:3.47345in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image9.jpg" style="width:7.3062in;height:4.19879in" />

**US Air Force in Europe**

US Air Force in Europe (USAFE) with its HQ at Ramstein, Germany,
supplies forces to Allied Command Europe (ACE) through dedicated air
wings under the control of the various NATO Air Forces. 2 and 4 Allied
Tactical Air Force (ATAF) in northern Europe are both under the command
of Allied Air Forces Central Europe (AIRCENT), essentially USAFE HQ
under a different name. For forces allocated to southern Europe,
primarily 16<sup>th</sup> US Air Force, NATO’s 5 and 6 ATAF will control
operations under the direction of Allied Air Forces Southern Europe
(AIRSOUTH) located at Naples Italy.

Unsurprisingly, the most significant impact of Northern Fury’s changes
occur in Europe. Historically, after ‘Peace Dividend’ reductions, only
eight Fighter Squadrons in three wings remained in Europe with about 175
front line combat aircraft. In Northern Fury, there are 12 Fighter Wings
remaining in Europe, with 28 Squadrons and another 8 are on immediate
recall from the Continental US (CONUS). This totals up as 860 front line
aircraft and between 50 and 100 tankers, transport and reconnaissance
aircraft in support. USAFE will grow well beyond this as the
well-practiced flyover reinforcement program continues, swelling to more
than double this number.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image10.png" style="width:5.83403in;height:6.88056in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image11.png" style="width:7.56875in;height:1.47132in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image12.jpeg" style="width:6.88248in;height:3.37044in" />

**Air Force Special Operation Command**

Based at Hurlburt Field, Florida, the Air Force Special Operation
Command (AFSOC) only became a separate command in May of 1990 when the
former 23<sup>rd</sup> Air Force was re-designated to this role. AFSOC
has a wide ranging list of tasks including:

-   Providing combat controllers for air to ground coordination of
    airpower. This function is being consolidated within AFSOC from ACC,
    PACAF and USAFE but the capacity remains in those commands

-   Providing Combat Search and Rescue (CSAR) services worldwide

-   Operating all airborne weather services for US Army and USAF
    worldwide, as well as providing aircraft to NASA (National
    Aeronautics and Space Administration) and NOAA (National Oceanic and
    Atmospheric Administration) which includes the US National Weather
    Service.

-   Operating airborne psychological operations platforms.

-   Operating a squadron of AC-130 Spectre gunships for close air
    support

-   Operating a fleet of ‘Combat Talon’ C-130 special mission aircraft
    for stealthy infiltration of special forces personnel.

-   Operating a fleet of ‘Combat Shadow’ C-130 special mission refueling
    aircraft.

-   Operating a fleet of ‘Pave Low’ and ‘Pave Hawk’ helicopters for
    CSAR, insertion and extraction missions.

AFSOC is a small, agile organization which runs its own school, test and
evaluation unit and deployable Command and Control elements. Operating a
fleet of over 100 special mission C-130s, 36 MH-53 heavy lift
helicopters and several MH-60’s, this force can deploy elements globally
either as individual aircraft or as mission tailored groups on very
short notice.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image13.png" style="width:5.59375in;height:2.14653in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image14.jpg" style="width:6.26042in;height:4.07783in" />

**Air Force Space Command**

Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) is another new command, it was
established in 1982 to control all US military satellites, launch
vehicles, space tracking and ballistic missile warning systems. The role
of AFSPC increased substantially in 1993 when it inherited
responsibility for all Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBM) from
the defunct Strategic Air Command (SAC). AFSPC provides ready ICBMs to
US Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM), a unified command responsible for the
employment of all US nuclear forces. Additionally, the commander of AFSC
is also the commander of the North American Air Defense Command (NORAD),
the bi-lateral command between the US and Canada for defending North
American airspace from intrusion. This relatively small command has
about 39,000 personnel, half of them civilian, but is located in over 80
locations around the world. Two numbered Air Forces in the command
coordinate and control 580 ICBMs and over 50 communications, GPS,
reconnaissance, ballistic missile warning and weather satellites. (Note,
the structures involved in space /assets, ICBMs, NORAD and national
reconnaissance have gone through numerous changes over time)

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image15.png" style="width:5.58681in;height:6.20694in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image16.jpeg" style="width:6.99917in;height:4.66844in" />

**Air Force Reserve**

In 1994, the Air Force Reserve (AFR) is an agency within the Air Force,
it does not become a command until 1997. As an element with 80,000
personnel and nearly 500 aircraft however, the Reserve is a major
component of the USAF. Many of the wings and squadrons of the AFR are
‘associated’ with regular USAF wings and squadrons, primarily in AMC
where the aircrew often share aircraft or combine regular and reserve on
the same crew. Within the AFR structure there are three numbered Air
Forces, 37 wings, 128 groups and about 400 squadrons (many without
aircraft). There are some minor changes due to the Northern Fury setting
but nothing significant. Not all detail is shown in the diagram below:

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image17.png" style="width:5.66736in;height:4.16042in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image18.jpg" style="width:7.34097in;height:3.88555in" />

**Air Force National Guard**

Commonly referred to simply as the ‘**Air Guard**’ or simply the
‘**Guard’** this is another large element of the USAF with over 111,000
personnel flying in 88 wings from every state of the country. The Air
Guard provides trained units and people directly to the other commands.
Unlike the ARS, these units belong to the State Governors until
federalized for operations. Standing agreements exist for NORAD and many
other domestic activities, but special permissions are needed to deploy
Air Guard units overseas. No numbered Air Forces are operated by the Air
Guard and many wings consist of only one squadron. Northern Fury has
some significant changes that impact this element, primarily because the
active air force maintains many squadrons that were historically
deactivated. By 1994 the Air Guard was receiving a significant number of
very new aircraft as regular units closed down, but since that does not
happen, the Guard was maintaining many older aircraft until production
of newer airframes could catch up to demand. The Air Guard flies over
1,500 aircraft in 109 squadrons as follows:

-   7x F-15A Squadrons of 24 aircraft each, 3 are for NORAD, one is in
    Hawaii;

-   29x F-16ADF Squadrons of 18 aircraft each, 14 are for NORAD;

-   3x F-16 Block 25 Squadrons of 24 aircraft each;

-   1x F-16 Block 50 Squadron of 24 aircraft, half of that Squadron is
    in the Persian Gulf;

-   3x F-4E Squadrons of 24 aircraft each;

-   1x F-4G ‘Wild Weasel’ Squadron of 24 aircraft;

-   2x RF-4C ‘Reconnaissance’ Squadrons of 18 aircraft each;

-   3x A7D Squadrons of 18 aircraft each;

-   5x A-10 Squadrons of 18 aircraft each;

-   1x EC-130E ‘Commando Solo’ Squadron of 8 aircraft;

-   19x C-130E/H varying between 8 and 12 aircraft each (1 Sqn is
    forming and has 5);

-   2x C-141B Squadrons of 8 aircraft each;

-   1x C-5A Squadron of 8 aircraft;

-   1x CT-43A Squadron of 6 aircraft working with ATEC;

-   1x C-21A Squadron with 4 aircraft for VIP transport;

-   20x KC-135 Squadrons with 7 to 10 aircraft each;

-   1x T-38 Squadron with around 32 aircraft working for ATEC;

-   1x C-130E Training Squadron with 10 aircraft working for ATEC;

-   1x F-4G/RF-4C Training Squadron with at least 12 of each working for
    ATEC;

-   2x C-130P Rescue Squadrons with 5 aircraft each

-   2x HH-60 Rescue Squadrons with 8 aircraft each

-   1x Mixed Rescue Squadron with 4x C-130P and 6x HH-60.

-   2x Rescue Jumper Squadrons.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image19.jpg" style="width:5.67708in;height:3.13186in" />

**Air Force Training and Education Command**

The Training Command (ATEC) is worth noting simply because of the scale
at which the USAF conducts training. At any time, there are over 60,000
assigned personnel and around 350,000 students within the command.
Although flight training is only one of many functions of ATEC, it
operates over 1,500 aircraft in two numbered air forces, including over
350 front line aircraft!

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image20.png" style="width:7.61736in;height:2.73617in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image21.jpg" style="width:6.95833in;height:4.63425in" />

**Air Force Materiel Command**

Procurement, life cycle management, testing and evaluation as well as
routine logistic support is the role of the AFMC. With over 115,000
personnel and operating 40 different types of aircraft, this is a large
command. AFMC also operates the ‘Test Pilot’ school and works with
industry to develop and evolve aircraft.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image22.jpg" style="width:6.85694in;height:3.0582in" />

**Northern Fury**

With the significant increase of tensions in Europe caused by the
Northern Fury storyline, US lawmakers and hawks amongst the defense
community watched a resurgence of hard liners with a mix of caution and
anger. Increased Soviet aggressiveness as early as 1989 and then the
1991 coup that deposed Gorbachev signaled a change in the path of
history. Tensions rapidly ramped up as the Soviet Union exerted pressure
on Poland and Germany with the apparent goal of minimalizing NATO’s and
ultimately the United States’ influence on Europe. As a reaction to
these developments the US Government embarked on a plan to rejuvenate
the Reagan era programs of the 1980’s. Three major initiatives were
undertaken to stem the decline of combat power within the air force:

1.  As mentioned earlier, halting the base and wing closures recommended
    by the various BRAC committees allowed the structure of the USAF to
    remain relatively unchanged, from the late ‘80s.

2.  In order to maintain force levels, several airframes were retained
    in service longer than they were historically. A major impact of
    this was on the Air Guard, as they did not receive the windfall of
    new equipment in the early ‘90s. Several squadrons still fly F-4
    Phantom and A-7 Corsairs, and many more retained the legacy F-16ADF
    (Air Defense Variant). There is a smattering of other airframes that
    will be retained longer than planned such as the F-4G Wild Wesel,
    the F-111F and B-52G, these will be mentioned in the detailed
    aircraft section later.

3.  Ramping up, or more accurately, not ramping down of production.
    Although there are some specialty aircraft that this policy affects
    such as the EC/MC/AC-130 series where Northern Fury sees about 27
    more airframes in use, the big impact is in front line fighter
    aircraft and the B-2 Bomber.

    1.  A total of eight B-2 Spirit bombers are in service (AV-7 to
        AV-12, plus AV-5 & 6 held by ATEC). These have formed the
        393<sup>rd</sup> Bomb Squadron at Whiteman AFB. Training,
        testing and evaluation is ongoing with the two ATEC airframes
        not ready for immediate operations.

    2.  The F-15E Strike Eagle, all 200 ordered plus 6 replacement
        aircraft had been delivered by early 1992, a further order was
        placed for 100 airframes early enough to continue production at
        capacity (42/year) until 1993. Therefore, an additional three
        squadrons are available and the 6<sup>th</sup> Fighter Wing at
        Mountain Home AFB was formed. 550<sup>th</sup> Fighter Squadron,
        the operational conversion unit for this type is due to
        deactivate later in 1994, but remains extant within ATEC when
        Northern Fury commences.

    3.  The single largest impact of retained production is the F-16
        Falcon. Historically the late ‘80s and early ‘90s saw a massive
        downsizing and sell-off of this ubiquitous and versatile
        fighter. Many went to the Air Guard, many others went into long
        term preservation and yet more were sold to allies. In Northern
        Fury the 1988 level of production (180/year) was maintained
        right through 1993 and is planned to continue for at least 3
        more years. Factoring in a slightly higher level of attrition,
        this production results in an additional 442 airframes being
        available, all at the Block 40/42 and 50/52 standard. Combined
        with retaining some older aircraft in the Air Guard, not
        retiring many F-16ADF, and canceling several foreign sales a net
        increase of 15x F-16 Squadrons are available to the USAF.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\image23.jpg" style="width:7.125in;height:5.3592in" />
