**Indian Ocean Fury \#6 – Into the Breach**

**<u>Playtest Report by AndrewJ May 2022</u>**

**SITUATION**  
  
After initial fierce fighting in and around the Persian Gulf, Iranian
and Soviet forces have fallen back (a little) to regroup, and we’ve been
given the responsibility for dominating and protecting the Persian Gulf
region. We’re expected to make a major political demonstration by
bringing the Saratoga carrier group through the narrow Straits of
Hormuz, into the Gulf and up to the Arabian coast. There are streams of
ingoing and outgoing supertankers (particularly an outgoing convoy)
which need protection along the length of the Gulf, and groups of our
own logistics ships need cover as they transit the region. We’re also
expected to protect Iraqi infrastructure and beat up on accessible
Iranian infrastructure.  
  
Our main force is the Saratoga carrier group, and we have a number of
smaller individual ships (mostly frigates and missile boats) scattered
throughout the region. There are two other strong task groups in the
region, on either side of the Straits of Hormuz, plus three sets of
minesweepers in and around the straits, but these are not under our
direct control. We also have land-based air distributed along the coast,
from the Gulf of Oman to Kuwait, but these are mostly a small assortment
of minor units, some NATO, and many local. The big formations have left
the area, and there’s nothing at all in Iraq.  
  
Worryingly, stocks of AAMs and other PGMs are running low. There are
only 18 Phoenix missiles on the carrier. Other missiles aren’t quite as
bad, but heavy fighting could exhaust them rapidly. TLAMs are
essentially restricted from use. We have a handful, but most are
reserved for later tasks. Massive missile barrages and overwhelming
combined strikes aren’t going to be possible.  
  
We don’t have a lot of information about enemy deployments. Forces in
the immediate area of the Straits have reportedly taken a pounding, and
major ships have presumably been sunk, but the situation in the interior
is less clear. We can probably expect the bulk of their air forces to be
there, but there is a lot of uncertainty about what survives, and what’s
deployed at each base. Small boats may be an issue, and submarines are
definitely a concern. Most of all, the threat of mines looms large.
There are multiple regions on both sides of the straits which have been
written off as ‘no-go’ zones, and only a small central channel, maybe 5
to 10 miles wide, is considered to be clear of mines. Traffic
constraints will certainly be tight, and if they manage to sneak more
mines into the central channel, then we could have severe problems.  
  
**PLAN**  
  
Operations will begin with initial reconnaissance, focusing on the
Straits of Hormuz area, and surrounding defense installations. What’s on
the islands of Abu Musa and Kish? What forces are in Bandar Abbas, or at
Jask? Vulnerable tankers are already in the area, so we need to know
soon.  
  
The outbound tankers we control in the Gulf are ordered to converge onto
a common route, to minimize the risk of mine strikes and submarine
surprises, and to try and catch up with the main body of our outbound
convoy, which is proceeding in single file at 14 knots. The convoy gets
a single frigate at the front and tail, and another (the Aliseo) is
ordered to hurry over and join the escort as soon as possible.  
  
Our carrier group is ordered to tighten up and proceed towards the
straits, blasting away on active sonar in the hope of pre-empting any
close-in submarine surprises. The usual array of AEW, ESM, and CAP will
cover the area, and ASW helicopters are sent about 30 to 40 miles ahead
to hunt for more distant ambushes.  
  
We’ve got two small logistics task groups, one inbound and one outbound
between Diego Garcia and the Gulf. These are ordered to bias towards the
south shore of the Gulf of Oman, and to follow the same route to ease
our ASW search problems. Our one SSN is assigned to patrol the south
side of the mouth of the Gulf of Oman, in the area where the groups are
expected to transit. We only have two P-3s, and both of them are
assigned to lay sonobuoy cordons along the expected route. The outbound
group has one frigate for escort, but the inbound group is completely
undefended, and no other forces are available in the area. Fingers
crossed…  
  
Baghdad is on our ‘to defend’ list, but we’ve got nothing in the
immediate area to defend it, and there’s not even a radar in the
vicinity. We’ll send a few planes up from Kuwait, 300 miles away, but we
don’t have a lot to spare, given the concentration of Iranian forces
near Kuwait on the Gulf.  
  
*(Some adjustments are also made to the NATO Support side. The Tripoli
is operating with only a single FFG for escort, which is horribly risky,
so it is ordered to immediately combine with TG Fox for more protection.
All task groups are tightened up, active sonars are turned on, and SAM
WRA is set down to 75%. Minesweepers are changed to line-abreast
formation, and given regular patrol routes along the swept corridors,
rather than relying on the AI’s random-walk method. The Western Mine
Patrol zone was adjusted to the actual path of the tankers. Other than
that, I left things alone.)*  
  
**BEGIN!**  
  
Operations commence, and other than the abrupt discovery of a
goblin *inside* the carrier group (fortunately just fish), the
reconnaissance commences as planned.  
  
The Iranians have some small patrol boats near Larak, and a bunch of
large cargo vessels with strange sensor emissions operating near Hengam
and Bandar Abbas. We’ve met these before *(in previous scenarios)*;
Iranian ‘ship-of-the-line’ conversions, with conventional artillery
batteries lined up on deck. They’re slow, and not an enormous threat,
but recce shows 40 small ships at Hengam, and 60 at Larak, and swarms of
that size are a definite concern!  
  
Some of our Mirages have excellent SLAR pods, and one goes zipping along
the coast and islands, finding numerous AAA and small SAM detachments.
The docks and runways on the island of Abu Musa are still wrecked,
fortunately, but Kish Island seems operational, although we don’t see
anything there except air defences. On the other side of the straits,
Jask and Khereti don’t seem to have anyone home either, at least as far
as a visiting S-3 can tell.  
  
One of our helicopters gets a radar contact in the north end of the
Gulf, which turns out to be a small Delvar military cargo ship. Analysts
wonder what it’s doing out there, alone. Maybe minelaying?  
  
Fortunately, enemy air operations seem limited so far. There are F-4s
staying ‘feet dry’ along the Persian Gulf coast, a single one loitering
near Bandar Abbas, and some MiG-29s further inland near Shiraz, but
that’s all so far.  
  
**ANTI-SHIP OPERATIONS**  
  
The honour of the first shot goes to the frigate Aliseo, which puts a
single Otomat into the closest ship-of-the-line, the Pahlavi, leaving it
flooding and ablaze. One of the Dhofar patrol boats *(on the NATO
Support side)* near Bandar Abbas gets into the act by moving to the
north end of its zone and hitting another SOTL with two Exocets, and a
third with another. An excellent start by our allies!  
  
An F-16 from Al Dhafra arrives and gets rid of two of the small patrol
boats near Larak with a pair of Mavericks, and an A-6 drops a Skipper on
the last one, before moving on to finish the Pahlavi. F-18s arrive from
the carrier to smash the docks at Larak and Hengam with heavy Walleye
munitions. There’s a very satisfying string of secondary explosions, as
the weakly built little boats there are wrecked by the blast, which
removes a major threat to passing shipping.  
  
The lone Delvar also gets some attention, from the beautifully named ‘Al
Boom’ PGM, which comes dashing out of Kuwait to hunt it down. It will
take a few hours to get in range, but when it does a single Exocet is
enough to sink the little cargo ship.  
  
We also have a fine stroke of luck when, at 2038Z, one of the
helicopters ahead of the carrier gets a deep contact moving at 3 knots
on an active sonobuoy. The pilot turns about, dropping a Mk46 on the
contact, which starts dashing away in a very un-fishlike manner. The
torpedo closes, misses, swings about and reattacks, hitting and sinking
an ultra-quiet Kilo. This nasty little ambush predator was right in the
path of passing tankers and the carrier group, so its demise is welcome
news.  
  
  
**BAGHDAD ATTACKED**  
  
As midnight approaches, two F-15s circle in the dark skies east of
Baghdad, wondering if they really need to be there. Are the Iranians
likely to mount any significant night raid on the city? But then, as
they circle, there’s a sudden radar contact. A victim!  
  
The eager pilots turn aggressively to attack. Four planes inbound, easy
meat! But the radar count keeps growing. There’s another flight. And
then another. And indications of fighter radars coming in fast too.
There are 24 planes coming in quiet, and over a dozen more, radars
blazing. There are only two Eagles.  
  
The first plane dives in, Sparrows and AMRAAMs killing the first four
Su-24s, and Sidewinders wounding another, before dashing away pursued by
the howling horde of MiG-23s. This leaves the second pilot free to
attack unmolested, killing five more, wounding two, and chasing another
into the heart of Baghdad. Cannon-fire blazes at the target, fragments
fly off the enemy plane, but bombs drop – right on Air Defence HQ!  
  
The F-15s flee on afterburner, and manage to elude the escorting MiGs,
but there are no other forces left to engage the enemy. The remainder
drop their bombs unopposed, smashing targets throughout the city.
Furious Iraqi officials demand to know why there was no effective
defence, and what will be done to prevent further attacks. Planning
staff aren’t certain exactly which base the Sukhois came from, but their
closest estimate has them landing around 2145Z, which means no launch
before 0345Z, best case. The survivors will probably be back shortly
after that time, and officials pledge that there will be more fighters
ready to meet them in the morning.

**F-14 SURGE**  
  
A surge of F-14s is an awesome sight, and the blare of their powerful
radars is enough to weaken the heart of the opposition even before they
come into range. Top Gun-loving Americans everywhere thrill with pride
at their presence! The problem is, these F-14s are Iranian…  
  
One of my recce Mirages, making an inland dash to try and get a look at
the Shiraz area, seems to have triggered a major response, and swarms of
Iranian F-14s start boiling up out of the area. The Mirage is already
outbound supersonic, and never got close enough to be caught, but the
enemy fighters start spreading out to look for other targets. We’ve only
got two F-14s up in the area, both with one single Phoenix each, and
they manage to kill one of the inbound fighters before they have to
flee. That still leaves 11…  
  
Some head SW, towards the Bahrain/Qatar area, and most head for the
Straits of Hormuz. A few of my other fighters, F-15s and Mirages, make
an attempt to engage, but the range advantage of the enemy Phoenixes is
overwhelming, and our pilots are forced into supersonic retreat before
they can get remotely close enough to shoot back. Everything we have
that can fly is evacuating the area at top speed, and an urgent call
goes out to NATO support units in the straits to land their helicopters
immediately. *(I had to manually switch sides to order this.)* One of
the vital minesweeper helicopters doesn’t receive the message, and gets
shot down, and the Iranian F-14s continue to aggressively pursue our
forces across the Gulf.  
  
That’s where they meet their doom. The ships of TG Texas aren’t
impressed by Phoenix missiles, and the Texas herself opens fire with
SAMs and starts executing passing Iranian F-14s. Our fleeing F-15s head
for Qatar, and the F-14s pursue aggressively, right into the range of
the Patriot missile batteries based there. Losses are severe, and as the
surviving enemy turns away fresh American F-14s arrive with more
Phoenixes of their own and chase down the few survivors.  
  
**COASTAL FIGHTING**  
  
The Iranians take their revenge soon enough, and at 2130Z the Al
Sharqiyah, one of the Dhofar missile boats operating in the east mouth
of the straits, vanishes in a thundering torpedo explosion about 43
miles ahead of the carrier. Planes and helicopters converge on the area,
but there’s no sign of the enemy sub, until a speculative torpedo drop
prompts it to evade at full speed. Sonobuoy operators pick that signal
up immediately, and the S-3 swings around to put another torpedo on the
target. That sinks a Kilo, the second one in the area.  
  
Fighting breaks out all along the Iranian coast. F-16s and Mirages snipe
the F-4s patrolling near the coast, while our Tornadoes arrive from
Kuwait and hit the runways and some of the hangars on Kish Island. We
had no explicit spottings of anything there (other than a Rapier SAM and
some AAA), but everyone feels a lot more secure knowing no lurking
surprises can pounce on us from there anymore.  
  
At 2203Z ESM operators report radar signals from Blinder bombers coming
in from the direction of Kerman, and more CAP is scrambled to meet them.
The supersonic intercept makes it just in time, shooting down three of
the bombers and damaging another, and forcing it to turn back. A lone
Phantom from Bandar Abbas makes a brave attempt to interfere with our
interceptors on their return journey, but other F-18s arrive to clear it
off.  
  
We have anti-shipping missiles of our own, and one of our big Puma
helicopters comes sneaking into the Straits to put a pair of Exocets
into one of the armed freighters. An F-18 arrives with a pair of
Harpoons to add to the mess. The freighters take multiple hits, but
they’re tough ships and they stay afloat, heading for the docks in
Bandar Abbas as best they can.  
  
**BANDAR ABBAS**  
  
Bandar Abbas, the port, airfield, and SAM complex at the ‘elbow’ of the
Straits of Hormuz, has to be eliminated if we’re to cover our forces as
they transit the region. So far, we’ve seen F-4s operating from the base
(albeit in small numbers), and the SAMs in the region (2 x SA-6, 1 x
SA-2, numerous Rapiers) have taken potshots at passing aircraft. Perhaps
it’s not a huge threat, but any launch would be so close to passing
ships that reaction times would be minimal.  
  
ALARM-carrying Tornadoes arrive from Kuwait, and manage to damage the
radars on the SA-2 site, although the SA-6s refuse to illuminate and get
shot, and they also snipe a few local surveillance radars. That clears
the way, somewhat, for F-15Es, Mirages, and other supporting aircraft to
hit the area with heavy LGBs and HARMs. Multiple hits are registered on
the runway, the big hangars are ablaze, the docks are gone (along with
one of the freighters tying up there), the two other wounded
ships-of-the-line are sunk, and one of the SA-6s finally succumbs to a
volley of HARMs.  
  
And with that, Bandar Abbas is done! (Well, except for the SA-6 that’s
still operating. And the runway that isn’t as damaged as we thought. And
the F-4s that pop up over the next few hours to interfere. It takes a
follow-on LGB strike to finally close the base some hours later…)  
  
**AIR OPERATIONS, PRE-DAWN**  
  
Our dispersed air operations continue in the morning darkness, as our
recce pilots continue to scope out the defences around the Iranian
airbases. Most have a brace of good SAMs and AAA, often built around a
core of an SA-10, so we’re reluctant to send anyone in for a close-range
look. Shiraz has an SA-5 too, which is taking an occasional
long-distance shot at us, just to complicate matters.  
  
Mirages hit more of the vulnerable F-4s along the coast, but things
don’t go quite as smoothly when facing the agile MiG-29s further inland,
and many missiles get used for little effect. There are jammers and
ELINT planes up and about in the middle of the country too, and some
prowling F-18s try to catch some. They manage to get an ELINT plane, but
the jamming makes it very difficult to pinpoint the jammers in the dark,
and they all get away.  
  
The intrusion also prompts another F-14 swarm, even bigger than the last
one, which comes streaming up out of Khatami. Our pilots know the drill:
run away! But this time they’re further inland with no friendly SAMs to
hide behind. With fifteen angry Tomcats spreading out, things could get
grim. However, after a few minutes of running, there’s still no sign of
Phoenix missiles being fired in our direction. Could it be that these
F-14s don’t have any?  
  
No Phoenix? Chaaaarge! Our fighters go wheeling about back into Iran,
and more scramble to come jostling in for a piece of the action. The
Iranians are carrying converted HAWK SAMs, of poor effectiveness, our
Sparrows are better than their Sparrows, our Sidewinders are better than
their Sidewinders, and we’ve got jammers behind us. Our F-14/15/16/18s
have a merry time, accounting for almost all the F-14s, plus a pair of
MiG-29s and another F-4 that manage to get in the way.  
  
**DAYLIGHT IN THE GULF OF OMAN**  
  
Dawn arrives, and our forces are feeling reasonably pleased with
themselves. We’ve had major victories over Iran’s best fighters, and
most of the coastal bases which directly threaten our shipping have been
neutralized, and although we got caught at Baghdad, we did manage to
take a respectable chunk out of the strike. Time for a little more
reconnaissance! Our U-2 goes off to survey the Gulf of Oman, to see if
there’s anything out along the coast in that direction, with its
electronic sensors picking up sniffs of Pakistani and Indian radar
emissions. (Interestingly, intel has reported that India lost a Tarantul
somehow, so the war there is evidently ongoing.)  
  
However, amongst the other signals, there are the characteristic
emissions of the radars on a pair of Badger long-range reconnaissance
aircraft. These are <u>east</u> of us, near India, behind all our
defences. If they come west, they are perfectly poised to detect our
unprotected logistical task groups heading to and from Diego Garcia, and
cue enemy forces to engage them. (SSGN? Badgers with ASMs? Or a
long-range Bear? And where the heck did they come from?) They can’t be
ignored, and a pair of F-14s and a tanker are sent out to try and catch
them.  
  
The U-2, meanwhile, decides to get a little closer to Cha Bahar, to see
if anything is deployed there, and spots a couple of F-4s. They’re on
the runway access points, and that means they’re launching. Uh-oh. The
U-2 turns to flee, while the F-14s are redirected north to intercept on
burner, and they barely manage to kill the F-4s before they can catch
the U-2. Fortunately, that tanker was sent out with them, and they
manage to tank before they flame out, and they resume their first
interception. Both Badgers are caught and shot down, one actually
overflying the tip of Pakistan en-route to a base in eastern Iran.  
  
**PERSIAN GULF**  
  
Activity’s heating up again in the Persian Gulf too. A pre-dawn recce
pass with a SLAR Mirage confirmed the location of major air-defence
units, and now that it’s daylight our lesser strike planes can avoid
them to mount attacks on Iranian infrastructure. Kuwaiti A-4s come in
low to hit four facilities just across the Iranian border, destroying
them all, and spotting what seem to be MANPADs detachments along the
border itself. Further south, bomb-laden Mirages do good work against
coastal power plants and factories with iron bombs and LGBs.  
  
In between, about 30 and 70 miles south of Bushehr, there’s two sets of
three small units deployed inland of a line of coastal hills. Initially
assumed to be AAA, two in each set turn out to have SA-8 radar
emissions. Normally they could be ignored, since nothing valuable seems
to be in the area, except that one of the other two units has an OTH
radar emitting. That means these are probably SSM units, which can
eventually target our ships. Two pairs of Maverick-carrying F-16s are
sent to destroy them, and they manage to do it by coming above the SA-8
ceiling, and shooting down from above.  
  
Meanwhile, our tanker convoy is proceeding east through the Gulf near
Abu Dhabi, in single-file anti-mine formation, when a lookout on the
trailing frigate starts yelling about a visual submarine contact eight
miles directly astern! The watch officer thinks he’s nuts. How the heck
would you see a periscope at 8 miles? He grabs the binoculars and his
jaw drops, as he sees a sub, sail semi-awash in extremely shallow water,
only a mile to the side of a tanker which is hurrying to catch the
convoy.  
  
The tanker turns as fast as it can (hah!), but torpedoes are already in
the water. One misses astern, and one hits the tanker in the flank,
blowing a hole but barely slowing the massive vessel as it curves
gradually towards Abu Dhabi. Can it escape? Heck no! The third torpedo
hits the stern, knocking the engines off-line. Furious ASW helicopters
are powering in from the convoy escorts, and air-dropped torpedoes hit
the water, missing the seabed by inches and zooming towards the
submarine, caving in the hull plating and leaving the wreck sitting on
the bottom with its periscopes sticking into the air. A truly bizarre
engagement.  
  
The drifting tanker, listing and on fire, calls for a tug and fireboats
from Abu Dhabi, and is eventually dragged into port half a day later.  
  
**GOOD MORNING BAGHDAD!**  
  
After yesterday night’s debacle with the Su-24 attack, our fighter
controllers make sure to have a tanker and four F-15s patrolling over
Baghdad in case they return in the morning. Two F-15s were enough to
tear a big chunk out of the first attack, so double the force should be
able to handle the reduced strike size, right?  
  
The first sign of them comes at 0422Z, but they’re coming from the
direction of Kermanshah, in the NE, rather than directly N like last
time. First four, then another four. Hmmm…. Extra escorts? This is
different, and staff start getting nervous. Our returning F-16s from the
SSM strike are about to land in Kuwait, so they are vectored north
towards the tankers at Baghdad, and more F-16s are scrambled with
fighter loadouts to join them.  
  
The first four fighters from Kermanshaw make attacks on our F-15s, but
our pilots easily outdistance the missiles, and the fighters (actually
MiG-23s) turn for home. The other four planes are still a puzzle,
perhaps Mirages, but then a massive stream of aircraft starts lifting
off from Kermanshaw, and we’re left with no time to think. The Eagles
have to attack, and they close in to find that the leading fighters are
MiG-29s, dammit, whose agile missile-dodging abilities avoid shot after
shot. We fight through them, killing three and damaging one, but use up
far too many missiles to do it.  
  
The Eagles plunge into the oncoming stream of attackers, at least 22 of
them, only to find they’re shooting Fishbeds! What a waste of missiles!
But the people of Baghdad won’t care what sort of aircraft dropped the
bombs, so they can’t be ignored. The Eagles use every missile they have,
and swing around through the fight to engage with cannons, but while
they’re fighting more planes are taking off.  
  
The list of radar calls is endless. Eight and eight from Kermanshaw,
radars on. Another eight fighters from Dezful. Nine from the direction
of Tabriz, maybe the Su-24s? *(Nope, Floggers.)* Twenty four more F-5s
coming in radar silent from Dezful. Four more planes from Kermanshaw,
and the Tabriz stream is up to twenty-one now. Make that eight from
Kermanshaw, and ESM says they’re Phantoms. Eight more from Ourimeyeh,
maybe Floggers. Another twelve contacts from the north with short range
radars on. The scope of the attack is overwhelming.  
  
Our Kuwaiti Mirages and A-4s are scrambling. They don’t have a hope of
protecting Baghdad, but they should be able to cut off attackers
returning to Dezful. Meanwhile, the empty F-15s do what they can to draw
off enemy fighters, to try and give the F-16s a clear shot into the
endless stream of attackers. Multiple attack aircraft fall, but it’s
only moments before we’re totally Winchester, and are chased out into
the western desert by Phantoms, MiG-23s, and MiG-21s. Thank god for
tankers!  
  
The first bombs fall on Baghdad at 0455Z (0755 local), and the battering
that follows makes yesterday’s attack look like a damp firecracker.
Infrastructure is hammered and destroyed by repeated crushing
bomb-blasts, fires leap into the sky, sirens wail, and dense plumes of
smoke are visible for dozens of miles. Humiliating and tragic video
footage is broadcast throughout the Arab and Persian world, and the
allies’ stock sinks lower still.  
  
Our Kuwaitis get a measure of revenge on the returning F-5s, as they
head back to Dezful. Their fighter escort is distracted and delayed at
Baghdad, leaving them unprotected. Our Mirage pilots do excellent work,
but the guys in our A-4s can barely find the trigger, and what could
have been an easy sweep turns into a lot of desperate dodging and
weaving. In the end, however, the long stream of wreckage proves that
the F-5s are no longer an effective force.  
  
**AFTERMATH**  
  
By 0530Z, 8:30 in the morning, it’s essentially over. Our forces have
disengaged, and are returning to base, while the last few bombs are
falling on Baghdad. Our pilots are claiming over 50 kills, although that
is mostly the returning F-5s and assorted MiG-21-alikes. The high-end
attack aircraft and fighters got away almost entirely unscathed.
Twenty-six more targets, from bridges, to government buildings, to power
stations, have been destroyed in Baghdad. Missile stocks in Kuwait are
dwindling; there are only two AMRAAMs left in the bunker at Ahmed Al
Jaber, AIM-9Ms are down to 13, and AIM-9Ps (for the A-4s) are down to 8,
and no attack planes are carrying optional weapons.  
  
Staff certainly did not anticipate an attack of this scale, and
preparations to meet it were inadequate. In hindsight, more aircraft
might have been found, perhaps F-15s tankered in from Sheikh ISA, or
F-16s from Al Dhafra, or maybe some planes from the Saratoga. It’s a
long flight though, nearly two hours from the distant carrier, and the
need to protect our shipping all along the Gulf ties down a lot of
/assets in place. This isn’t just an empty concern. During this heavy
fighting the Blinders made another attack, and this time they managed to
launch a missile (fortunately shot down) before being intercepted.  
  
The Saratoga is moving through the narrows of the Straits of Hormuz now.
Hopefully she’ll be able to provide better cover as she moves further
west.

**DAYTIME OPERATIONS**  
  
The pace of operations slows down after the massive Iranian attack on
Baghdad, and the rest of the morning is spent on smaller air-to-air
actions throughout the region.  
  
The Saratoga group’s passing through the narrows of the Straits of
Hormuz in single file, and some of her aircraft head north to screen the
group, and hunt for enemy aircraft. Patrols of F-18s head for the
interior, and manage to shoot down some of the elusive Su-24 jammers and
ELINT planes. Shortly before noon they detect fighter radars further
north, seemingly in the middle of nowhere, and these turn out to be
eight powerful Su-27s headed south. High end fighters like this can only
mean one thing. Inbound strike on the Saratoga!  
  
Fighters start scrambling from the deck of the carrier, while our
airborne planes hurry to intercept the strike. However, when we get
there, there’s no strike! The Su-27s seem to be on a fighter sweep of
some sort, and they mostly disengage after taking long-range missile
shots. Our pilots manage to shoot down a few, but there’s no decisive
engagement. Most of our planes return to the carrier without meeting the
enemy, except for a few fighters which are dispersed to hunt down more
support aircraft (more jammers, a P-3) and a lone Adnan AEW plane
operating in the NE.  
  
The Saratoga group clears the narrows shortly after noon, and spreads
out into fomation again, while some of her aircraft keep an eye on the
situation in the north. ESM reports a Badger jammer up near the Caspian
Sea, and MiG-29s and Su-27s in the Mehrabad/Tehran area. At one point we
get the signals of at least eight Su-15 Flagons, but they vanish after a
few minutes, making staff wonder if this is some sort of elaborate
fake-out. In any case, there’s no enthusiasm for pressing an attack that
far north, given our limited missile resources, so we’re content to hold
our planes in reserve and monitor the situation.  
  
On the other side of Iran, our fighters operating near Baghdad start
seeing patrols of MiG-29s coming up out of Kermanshah. They’re operating
aggressively, which can be a problem for the less-capable Mirages we’ve
been using to monitor the area, so we occasionally send F-15s too.
Skirmishing generally goes in our favour, but takes many missiles for
few hits, so we try to pull back our patrols to save resources.  
  
**TLAM ATTACK**  
  
ESM teams have reported that the Iranians have two main air-search
radars covering the southern part of the country, one near Kerman, and
one near Shiraz, and HQ authorizes a massive TLAM attack of two (2)
missiles to destroy them.  
  
Their positions aren’t known precisely enough for a strike, so a SLAR
Mirage is sent for a look, with an F-14 escort in case of interference.
The Kerman recce is unopposed, but there are MiG-29s operating near
Shiraz, so a combination of AMRAAM carrying F-16s and EA-6 jammers
arrives from the south and knocks down the patrol. The Mirage sneaks in
low, pops up, gets its radar fix, and zooms away down the valleys to
safety.  
  
The coordinates are radioed to the SSN USS Buffalo, which fires the two
TLAMs, sending each of them on carefully chosen routes down valleys
which are screened from nearby air defences. The missiles vanish across
the horizon, and nobody knows what’s happening, until the ESM crews
suddenly cheer when the radar signals stop. As far as we can tell, the
Iranians have now lost long-range radar cover over most of southern Iran
and the Gulf, except for local SAM radars, and that should help our air
operations proceed unopposed.  
  
The F-16s celebrate by shooting down a few more MiG-29s at Shiraz. (They
find the AMRAAM/Jammer combo works very well, and repeat it again later
in the evening.)  
  
**AFTERNOON**  
  
At 1230Z, our two logistical task groups pass each other in the Arabian
Sea. The only escort, the HMAS Hobart, turns around and joins the
northbound group, leaving southbound group to proceed alone. The single
P-3 laying sonobuoys ahead of the ships is their only protection, which
is a very slender defence indeed, given the unreliable nature of
sonobuoy detection, but it is literally the only option available.  
  
The outbound convoy of tankers from the Gulf is passing the narrows of
the Straits of Hormuz now, and at 1256Z another set of Blinder bombers
is detected flying past Kerman to attack. Loitering F-14s hurry north to
pounce on the bombers, only to see their vaunted long-ranged Phoenix
missiles get decoyed by chaff. Muttering about wonder-weapons that
aren’t, they close in and destroy the bombers with short ranged missiles
instead.  
  
And, at 1316Z, bomb blasts rock Baghdad again, as a small number of
Su-24s come in undetected through the afternoon haze of smoke and pound
more targets. Nobody’s there to intercept them, and they escape without
interference. The dull thudding sound is our ambassador hitting his head
against the wall…  
  
**BAGHDAD PATROLS**  
  
Our inability to defend Baghdad is becoming the focus of attention.
Militarily, the effect of the strikes is negligible. Politically, it
could become crucial. Despite our miserably low missile stocks, we need
to keep F-15s and tankers on station at all times, and aggressively
contest the Kermanshah MiG-29s.  
  
The new patrols go up, kill two MiG-29s, and then detect four more enemy
radars to the north. A new raid already? More F-15s are scrambled, and
the on-station planes move to engage, finding what turns out to be four
Floggers on some sort of CAP mission, but no raid. They all get shot
down, but the waste of good missiles is keenly felt.  
  
The lack of long-range radar cover, and the inability to tell what the
enemy contacts are, has been a significant problem. (Chasing Floggers
instead of ignoring them, for instance.) Moving the Saudi AWACS north
into Iraq would be ideal, but there’s no way the Saudis will allow that.
However, now that the Saratoga is getting closer, we have more options.
There’s no way I’m sending a vulnerable E-2 AEW plane away from the
fleet, but an ES-3 loitering discretely in central Iraq is workable
now.  
  
It arrives on station in an hour, and immediately starts sending useful
information to the fighter controllers. There are Phantom radars up near
Hamedan, MiG-23 radars near Sanandaj, and those new contacts approaching
Baghdad are MiG-29s. The F-15s get two of those (more missiles gone!)
and continue to patrol.  
  
**MISSILES – LACK THEREOF**  
  
The missile situation is becoming critical. We are out of Sparrow-Ms on
the Saratoga, which means no more F-14 loadouts! (Even though we still
have Phoenix and Sidewinder missiles for them.) An empty F-14 is sent to
the mainland to ferry back a load of Sparrows from Bahrain, and let us
get our planes back in operation.  
  
We’re also sending all our F-15Cs from Bahrain up to Kuwait, where they
will strengthen the small number of F-15s based there. Importantly, they
will also bring a full load of AMRAAMs each. Kuwait’s missile stockpile
still has a modest number of Sparrows, but the AMRAAM count is at zero.
Combining the newly arrived AMRAAMs with Sparrows allows more combined
loadouts.  
  
**OTHER OPERATIONS**  
  
As the Saratoga calmly continues west towards the Saudi coast (with a
brief brown-pants moment with a false sub contact), and our tanker
convoy continues east towards the Arabian Sea, our other small ships in
the Gulf start looking for other tasks. Two of them decide that the
island of Abu Musa is ripe for a little naval gunfire, and they convince
a night-vision equipped helicopter to join them as a spotter. The
south-east tip of the island is just within range of their 76mm guns
without entering minefield warning zones, and they proceed to steam back
and forth there, battering a pair of inoffensive 35mm gun units into
rubble. Magazines empty, they zip back to Port Rashid at flank speed, in
fine high spirits.  
  
Higher command levels are also considering options for further action.
The Bushehr nuclear complex, and the large airbases like Shiraz (with
its SA-5) and Omidiyeh are definitely worth striking, but they are
heavily defended. We probably only have enough SEAD power to break into
one defended airbase, but it’s not clear where the effort would be most
effective. A major naval gunfire raid on the air defences at Bushehr is
an interesting thought, but it would be very risky. It might also be
useful to hit the airbases which are hampering our efforts to protect
Baghdad (Dezful, Kermanshah, Sanandaj, Ourimeyeh) but we know little
about their defences. A hit against big bases along the Caspian might be
effective too, if it could knock out a major installation, but our
information on these is very limited, and the staff has to admit they
are probably well defended and out of reach. (Although the SSM complex
at Tehran has an ominous ring to it – political interference might
demand that.)  
  
The best option seems to be to conduct additional reconnaissance before
committing to a strike, so one of the SLAR Mirages is directed to survey
the Baghdad-related bases, and report on the status of the defences
there.  
  
**BAGHDAD NIGHTS**  
  
Shortly before midnight our pilots get an urgent ESM report of a dozen
Flogger radars near Tabriz. This might be a response to our intrusions
(the Mirage is in the area, and our F-15 patrol went further north than
before), but it might also be a strike escort. In either case, it’s big,
and we need more support. Two more flights of F-15s are scrambled from
Kuwait, and dash towards Baghdad on afterburner.  
  
Meanwhile, the F-15s on station head NNE to intercept, with radars on
and searching. Four more contacts appear ahead of the oncoming MiGs,
travelling radar-off, and four more behind. This is a strike for
certain, and if it’s anything bigger than this we’ll need more help. The
last F-15 is scrambled, along with a pair of F-16s. This leaves Kuwait
almost bare, so two F-18s come forward from the carrier to extra provide
local cover.  
  
Our pair of Eagles meets the strike at the border, hitting the two lead
Fencers, and then turning away on afterburner as the angry Floggers
close in for missile shots. One Fencer turns back, but the other
continues on at low altitude, while the swirling dogfight continues
overhead. Our next F-15s arrive, and pitch in to the fight, hitting more
of the Fencers that are coming through the confusion. Even our SLAR
Mirage pitches in to the fight, trying to snipe the lead Fencer at low
altitude, but he flubs his shot and misses wildly with his cannon fire.
More Eagles catch the leaker, and the Floggers try to disengage after
they’ve used their BVR missiles, allowing our pilots to kill the last of
the strike planes. In the end, seven of the eight Fencers are shot down,
and one escapes back home, while three quarters of the Flogger escort
are destroyed.  
  
Finally, a (small) raid conclusively defeated!  
  
**SITUATION**  
  
There is general celebration in headquarters, as the pilots report no
more inbound enemy. However, our logisticians report missile stocks are
dwindling fast. Our fighters are hurrying home to see if they can
reload, but there are only 8 Sparrows, 7 Sidewinders, and 13 AMRAAMs
waiting for them in Kuwait.  
  
It is now 2120Z, the very small hours of the morning. The Saratoga is
solidly in the center of the Persian Gulf, headed for the Saudi coast.
The tanker convoy has just emerged from the Straits of Hormuz. Both
logistics groups are en-route, closing on their destinations.  
  
What will the enemy do to us next?

**INITIAL RECCE RESULTS**  
  
The SLAR Mirage needs some help prying a pair of F-4s off its tail while
returning to base (more missiles gone!), but it brings back some
interesting information. The radar pass showed only 1 HAWK missile
battery at Dezful. There don’t appear to be any defensive units at
Kermanshaw, Sanandaj, or Mahedan. So, this entire flank is essentially
undefended, and could be attacked if needed. But do we need to? Activity
seems to be falling off here, and it may be a waste of scarce munitions.
HQ remains indecisive, and elects to wait.  
  
**SKIRMISHING AND SMALL RAIDS**  
  
The darkness hides a series of small actions. Some Floggers are spotted
and ignored up north. Carrier planes snipe at the MiG-29s around Shiraz,
using EA-6 jammers to ensure we get the first shot. The ‘MiG-29s’ CAPing
Omidyeh turn out to actually be F-5s, and get picked on for their
temerity. A lone Su-27 comes wandering down from Tehran, almost all the
way to Shiraz, but then heads home again. Radar crews watch all this
blearily, and try to stay alert.  
  
Shortly after midnight, the start of another strike is spotted moving in
on Baghdad: six Flogger radars near Tabriz! The Baghdad patrol tops up
its fuel and advances north to meet them, while backup scrambles out of
Kuwait to back them up. It turns out to be a small affair, with four
Fencers preceding the Floggers. Our fighters have to shoot down two
Flogger CAP on the way in, but then they manage to get all four
attackers and four of the escorts before the others turn back.  
  
A second raid happens just before dawn, and it looks bigger. We can see
Fishbeds taking off from Sanandaj, F-5s out of Dezhful, and F-4s out of
Hamedan. Once again the on-station fighters move to intercept, while
others scramble from Kuwait and burner north, and the Mirages try and
repeat their ‘cut-off’ maneuver at Dezful. However, when our F-16s shoot
down the incoming Fishbeds who are in the lead, the entire attack breaks
up and returns to base! *(Analysis of radio chatter later shows that
there were very few actual bomb-carrying planes in the strike, and once
those were destroyed the entire mission was aborted.)* Our F-16s claim
nine of the leading Fishbeds, but the Mirages only get two of the F-5s
before they duck back into the SAM cover around their base, and we try
to avoid the F-4s entirely to save missiles.  
  
In fact, missile stocks are so low that we have to start sending F-16s
down to Sheikh Isa airbase, since there aren’t any Sidewinders left at
their normal base in Kuwait.  
  
**BOMBARD BUSHEHR**  
  
Our patrol boats in the north are feeling a bit left out of the action,
so they are pressed into action as light shore bombardment units, and
sent to engage the air defences at Bushehr. The Al Boom and the Istiqlal
arrive and open up with light 76mm shell fire, causing minor damage to
the I-HAWK battery and the SA-11, and shooting up two surveillance
radars and an AAA gun with their lighter weapons. Magazines exhausted,
they go dashing away to Kuwait before anything else can respond.  
  
The PGM Mubarraz arrives around dawn, knocks some more pieces off the
HAWK battery, which resolutely refuses to die, and heads back to the
UAE. It’s not until the two Saudi FFLs arrive later in the morning that
the three main SAM batteries are finally destroyed. Just for fun, they
also head a little further north and start lobbing 81mm mortar shells
into the naval base’s fuel-tank farm. Splinters pierce the tanks, wreck
some piping and valves, and start a couple of small fires, but it looks
worse than it is, and local repair crews soon have the situation well in
hand.  
  
**MORE RECCE**  
  
The Saratoga arrives on station off Saudi Arabia in the early morning
(which is why they lent us those frigates), only to find that planning
staff still haven’t decided what to do. They’re leaning towards an
attack on Shiraz, but are still reluctant to commit. When all else
fails, more recce!  
  
This time the recce is in the center. Another of the SLAR Mirages and
the U-2 (with strong escort) are sent out to have a look at Omidyeh and
Shiraz, and the country just this side of the Khatami – Kerman – Zahedan
line. Omidyeh and Shiraz both turn out to be formidably defended: one or
two SA-10s, multiple I-HAWKS, SA-11s, SA-6s, and Rapiers, plus plenty of
AAA, of course. Attackable, yes, but at very high cost in PGMs.  
  
One oddity that is spotted is a small unit of six vehicles, about 15
miles north of the end of the gulf, in the direction of Omidyeh. It
seems undefended, so a flight of Kuwaiti Skyhawks go scooting out to
bomb it, and they send back a startled report that these are SCUDs! With
their usual lousy aim they only manage to hit a few of them, and it
takes a second flight to finish off the rest of the launchers. Radar
analysts also spot another similar unit out in the countryside up near
Khatami. A couple of Jaguars are sent out to hit it with cluster bombs,
which they do so efficiently that they can bring half their bombs home
with them.  
  
**THE LAST SKUNK**  
  
At 0416Z, the P-3 conducting ASW patrols in front of the southbound
logistics group suddenly gets a radar contact on a large surface ship,
about 190 miles SE of our ships, headed SW at 15 knots. On its current
course, it will pass about 60 mile in front of our ships. That’s
uncomfortably close, given our essentially defenceless condition.  
  
Our ships are ordered to slow down and change to a parallel course,
while the P-3 comes sneaking in at low altitude for an optical look at
the target. It turns out to be a large Iranian merchant ship, and that
means it has Iranian radios, and could cause all sorts of trouble if it
spots us and calls its friends. A flight of two Mirages from Al Dhafra
is ordered south to meet a tanker and head for the ship, which they sink
in efficient fashion by dropping a series of one ton laser guided bombs
on it. Once that’s out of the way, our task group resumes course.  
  
**SHIPS ON STATION**  
  
By 0930Z, shortly after local noon, our ships are all reporting that
they have reached their objective zones. The southern logistics group is
on course for Diego Garcia, and the northern logistics group is
loitering on station in the Gulf of Oman. Our convoy reports that it is
rounding the eastern cape of Oman, and is on-course towards France via
the Red Sea and the Suez Canal. The Saratoga group is on station off the
coast of Saudi Arabia, and lesser patrol boats are accompanying the
tanker traffic which remains in the Gulf.  
  
At this point, staff recommend postponing any major attacks. It’s not
clear that emptying our magazines on one target will provide a critical
advantage, when our future objectives are unclear. Therefore, fighter
patrols are maintained, but many of the other aircrew are allowed to
stand down. The enemy seems to feel the same way, and they continue to
patrol in the vicinity of Tehran, but no further strikes are launched in
our direction.  
  
And with that, at 2000Z the operation comes to an end. Many thanks for
writing another excellent scenario.

**IMPRESSIONS**  
  
This was a very interesting scenario, with all sorts of conflicting
constraints and responsibilities, and I enjoyed it a lot. With so many
interesting things happening, it was very difficult to resist the
temptation to take complete control of the NATO Support side too. I
found myself being pulled in two directions, trying to simultaneously
cover ships out south-east in the Arabian Sea, and Baghdad to the
north-west, 1300 miles away. How much do I want to weaken the very
exposed center to strengthen the ends? The missile shortage was
definitely affecting operations by mid-game, and I found myself pulling
missiles off strike planes, and shuffling aircraft around to try and get
proper loadouts. In some cases, I had to stop picking on enemy CAP and
support aircraft, in order to preserve missiles to repel possible
attacks, and I was even reluctant to engage strike escorts.  
  
In the second half of the game, I found myself in the oddly indecisive
situation of having enough attack power for one effective heavy strike,
but no clear indication of where it would be best to use it. Pick one
central airbase and wallop it? Spread out and attack peripheral bases?
Bounce the rubble at Bushehr or Bandar Abbas? None of them seemed to
have a major impact on the military objectives, and any of those might
be a waste if something else critical were to come up. An interesting
conundrum!  
  
The mega-swarms of F-14s were certainly alarming, with nothing to do but
run for it from the Phoenixes. It’s nasty when they belong to the enemy.
If I hadn’t switched sides and manually sent the NATO Support ASW
helicopters home, I would have lost a significant number of them to that
attack.  
  
The air strikes on Baghdad certainly put me on my heels, but that’s all
right. It makes for a much more engaging scenario when there are
setbacks to overcome. I could certainly have done a better job of the
defence there – deploying ESM planes for early warning (I completely
forgot the C160 was nearby), having a more carefully arranged series of
fighters and tankers on CAP, or trying some early recce. The failed
interceptions were a blow to the ego, but that’s a worthwhile lesson
sometimes, and the points from safe ship arrivals made up for the
deficit.
