**<u>Northern Fury \#9 – Hold the Line</u>**

**<u>AAR by bladesinger79, Sep 2022</u>**

At last! The United States Navy is getting involved in the war. In this
2-day scenario, I get the USS Enterprise carrier group with five subs
and slew of land-based aircraft. The Russians have TWO carrier groups
from the resurrected Kuznetsov and Varyag, lots of subs running rampant
in the Atlantic, a number of land-based aircraft from Iceland (which in
my last games was NOT captured), and a bunch of Foxhounds and Backfires.
Evenly matched right? Unfortunately for the Russians...IT WASN'T EVEN
CLOSE!!!

I've dealt out some beatings in this campaign before, but this one was a
greater beating than what the Coalition did to the Iraqis in the 1991
Gulf War. I suffered only one battle damaged aircraft in this fight to a
French BR1150 Atlantic. With my Tomcats armed with the Phoenix missiles,
I played air sniper. The Russians did have a chance: to go back where
they came from. But they told me to go do something very sexually
offensive to myself. I took it a bit personal and dished out vengence.

EDITING: I changed all the aircraft to READY, except for the planes down
for maintenance.

I started off the fight with laying as many sonobuoys as possible in
front of TG-E (Task Group Enterprise) and the shipping lane (SLOC)while
converting all of fighters to AAM loadouts. When the enemy sent their
Backfires and Foxhounds, I had Phoenix missiles waiting for them. A
minute later, I was sending hulks of carrier-based Flankers into the
sea. Within two hours, not only did I establish a bit of air
superiority, but sank two subs. In addition, I found the two enemy
carrier groups too far out for attack, but they were potential sub bait.
Four hours in, I had shot down 46 enemy aircraft, no losses. Hours
later, my planes sent a bunch of enemy vessels under the sea from both
task groups. The subs finished them off. There was nothing left of the
enemy.

From there, the outcome of the battle was no longer in contest, only a
matter of how many points I could rack up. Once I replenished my
munitions for the Big-E, it was over (I'm still crappy with doing that
in game, so I used Editor).

I attacked Keflavik twice, using up about 60 aircraft and all the
Tomahawks I had. When the dust settled and the smoke was still billowing
in the sky, I reduced the enemy to 8 total SAM tubes and a jammer truck.
I didn't strike the airfield. With 11 hours remaining, I called the game
as there was nothing left to do. I may have missed a special event but
felt it wasn't necessary.

Sank 14 total enemy ships, 9 submarines. Shot down 302 enemy aircraft,
not including helos.

Land-based fighters from USA were not involved as they were just too far
away to do anything. I had transferred a bunch of planes to Thule AFB,
but didn't want to risk any casualties trying to pick off Foxhounds and
AWACs so I just left them there. I did however use up tankers, Orions,
and Sentrys to the fullest. In addition, I used the 493 from Lossiemouth
to pick of straggling Flanker-Bs, Backfires, and tankers trying to push
past Iceland. The Tornadoes did well, they deserve some praise.

Three things really bugged me on this:

\#1, the dice rolls in avoiding my missiles by the system was
outstanding. I had to use 4-5 missiles sometimes just to shoot down a
tanker or an ASW plane. Guns were practically useless, seems like the US
piloting training needs to update themselves on dogfighting.

\#2: Air Refueling. My planes would break off from missions just to
refuel when they were not low on fuel. Sometimes, I had my F15s and
Tornadoes try to refuel with 75% of fuel remaining and wasn't far away
from Lossiemouth. Other times, I had Vikings break off from ASW patrol
to go fuel at a station over 400nm miles away when the Enterprise was
well within range. I tried to reset the ROE on refueling but this didn't
change the situation. Only when I grounded the tankers did I have full
control of my aircraft again. Wondering if anyone has addressed this.

\#3: When I landed F-16s from Goose Bay what was loaded with Sparrow-III
heavy loadouts, they automatically switched to Ready-Reserve and lost
their munitions. The game would NOT allow me to ready them with missiles
despite Thule AFB having more than enough. Had to use Editor to give
them back their loaded missiles.

Lots and lots of pilots scored over a dozen kills. I kept track of kills
on a spreadsheet, but stopped counting after the first 18 hours was
gone. Russians never had a chance, it was a senseless slaughter. I
didn't lose a single aircraft, while shooting down what should be
considered an entire air division of Russian forces. That's how wars are
supposed to be fought if you want to win. For the enemy, they really
need to surrender. Heheh.

**Pre-mission tasks.**

I reconfigured as many fighters as possible aboard the Enterprise for
anti-air and anti-ship loadouts. All Tomcats would be fitted Phoenix
heavy, Hornets Sparrow and/or AMRAAM heavy, and Eagles AMRAAM heavy. I
wasn’t afraid of Flankers, but Foxhounds gives me cause for concern. All
helos and ASW aircraft that was not fitted for sub warfare would be.
Realizing I limited my air cover, but many would be up and running
within a few hours.

I launched a ton of ASW aircraft to get those sonobuoys deployed.
There’s a LOT of sea space to cover and no idea how close enemy subs
would start close to my ships.

Editing.

\#1. I gave all the Tomcats that were in “ready” status Phoenix missile
loadouts and eliminated the dozens of civilian planes. Why? It was
causing my system to either slow down considerably or crash, and I
didn’t need all that on my computer.

\#2. I took full control of TG-241. Just seemed like the right thing to
do.

Zulu 0800: Launched four flights of Tomcats to provide long distanced
CAP, while sending the current CAP out to look for bombers between
Greenland and Iceland. Launched three more flights of Tornadoes in the
UK to do the same, while the Grim Reapers of 493 Sqn would provide CAP.
Also sent two Nimrods south to help the French in protecting the SLOC.
Speaking of the French, I launch a pair of Atlantics and Atlantique IIs
to get a belt of sonobuoys deployed inside and outside the SLOC.

Zulu 0812: Two Flanker Bs flying separately from Norway headed for the
Faroe Islands. I have six total Tornadoes against them.

Zulu 0825: Over two dozen air contacts detected, many west and south of
Iceland. A group of Su-33’s spotted SSE of Keflavik, roughly 150nm NW of
the HMS Talent. I sense a potential sub attack opportunity.

Zule 0829: Su-27B \#230 fires two AA-10s, most likely the Cs, at 11Sqn
RAF \#11, \#12 of flight 3097 from long range at their tails. These were
successfully outrun. The Flanker turns away, I give chase.

Zulu 0837: Su-27B \#231 also fires at Flight 3097 with its long-range
missiles, nearly hit.

Zulu 0839: Three groups of hostiles detected heading SSW from Iceland at
very high altitudes. One peels off to intercept one of my Tomcat CAPs.
Judging by their high speeds, suspected as Foxhounds. With Phoenix
missile loads, I have the advantage. Seconds later, they are confirmed
as MiG-31s and I engage with VF-51 \#5, \#6 from Flight 3123.

Zulu 0840: 11Sqn \#1 shot down Su-27B \#230.

Zulu 0842: 11Sqn \#11 shot down Su-27B \#231. VF-51 \#6 shot down one
MiG-31. VF-51 \#5 shot down the other.

Zulu 0851: Four Su-27Bs spotted headed for the UK region. This is going
to be tough.

Zulu 0852. Sonar contact detected inside the Lorient ASW 4 zone.
Confirmed signature identifies it at an SSK. 23F \#1 from France was
sent to terminate it.

Zulu 0901: VF-111 \#6, \#7 each shot down one MiG-31. Ten minutes later,
they each kill one more Mig-31.

Zulu 0911: 11Sqn RAF \#6, \#7 begins chasing down the four Su-27Bs.
11Sqn \#3, \#10 lends a hand.

Zulu 0912: 23F \#1 sinks a Kilo class sub, took three NEARTIP torpedoes
to do it. Suffered multiple hits by SAMs, as the sub was on the surface.
It is ordered to return to base, it’s pretty much out for the remainder
of the mission.

Zulu 0918: 11Sqn \#6, \#7 finished off three of the four Su-27s in the
area, \#3 killed the fourth.

Zulu 0930: VF-111 \#10 shot down a Be-12PL Mail who foolishly flew too
far out from Iceland’s CAP. With VF-111 \#12, they continue to hunt down
targets of opportunity from long range.

Zulu 0940: VF-111 \#10, \#12 of Flight 3125 engages a Fencer F and an
incoming group of Fulcrums. The Fence was 20nm away, while the Fulcrums
were much farther. The results were abysmal against the Fulcrums. 7
Phoenix missile shots, one hit (the chaff spoofing rolls were just
unbelievable). I attempted to draw the wave of enemy fighters within
range of my SAMS.

Zulu 0949: 11Sqn \#2 shot down a tanker east of Ireland that was flying
alone.

Zulu 0952: A sea-skimming missile detected 200+nm west of the UK and
50-60nm SSE of HMS Talent. I launched a Nimrod and diverted the HMS
Talent south to investigate.

Zulu 1032: VF-51 \#7 shot down one MiG-29 Fulcrum C and one Su-24MP
Fencer F, VF-51 \# 8 shot down two.

Zulu 1046: Surface group of unknown size and strength spotted south of
Iceland heading SSW of TG Enterprise. Possible CVHG group looking to
raid commerce lanes.

Zulu 1056: Sonar contact by sonobuoy in the SLOT lane, I had an Orion
nearby to investigate. Confirmed as a hostile SSN.

Zulu 1058: A group of six Mails flew unprotected SE towards the MHS
Talent roughly 100nm south of the enemy TG. They were all destroyed by
11Sqn RAF \#8 and \#9. A bunch of Su-33s tried to rescue their buddies
but were too late.

Zulu 1105: Enemy sub, NNE of TG-241 identified as a Victor II class
skirting north of the SLOT heading slowly east.

Zulu 1112: 493Sqn \#1 shot down two Su-33s.

Zulu 1115: 405 Sqn RCAF \#1 sinks the Victor II sub.

Zulu 1120: VF-51 \#2, \#2 each shot down a MiG-29 who flew right into
CAP space.

Second enemy TG spotted west of Iceland. Judging by the amount of
Su-33s, most likely a Kuznetsov group.

Zulu 1130: Received a direct message from CINCLANT to continue with the
mission, added more planes to my control, and try to find those jammers
deep behind enemy territory. The only fighters available that can fly
that far are my F-15s with light AMRAAM loadouts. I reconfigured their
loadouts and planned on using them soon. First things first, I MUST
establish air superiority.

Zulu 1140: Small fighter engagement, VF-111 \#6 shot down two Su-33s not
far from suspected Kuznetsov Group. 493 Sqn \#2 shot down one Mig-29
behind the second enemy TG. Enemy jammer and spoofing rolls were
legendary here. 493 Sqn \#4 shot down one MiG-29, took four total
missiles to kill that one.

Zulu 1151: 493 Sqn \#3 and \#4 managed to track and shot down a Tu-16P
Badger L at close range. Took a pair of Sidewinders to bring it down.
493 Sqn \#2 shot down one Tu-16RM-1/2 Badger D.

Zulu 1204: VF-111 \# 8 and \#9 each shot down one Su-33. 493 \#3 and \#4
totaled five AMRAAMS to take down one Su-33 (the dice rolls were insane)
east of Iceland. 493 Sqn \#1, \#2 snuck close to eastern Iceland and
attacked OESM planes, shot down four total ELINT planes.

Zulu 1223: A group of Backfire Cs spotted east of Iceland, roughly four
or so. I have a flight of Tornadoes enroute to try and intercept should
fuel allow. Continued to play long-ranged sniping of enemy fighters with
my Tomcats against the buzz of planes west of Iceland. My ASW /assets
continued to lay down hundreds and hundreds of sonobuoys along the SLOC.
The San Juan and Portsmouth subs are closing in on the western enemy TG
to attack from two directions, while the far distanced Chicago and HMS
Talent attempt to do the same to the southeastern enemy TG. 201 Sqn RAF
\#4 is looking for an enemy sub south of the HMS Talent. I shifted the
tanker zones closer to the objectives. It is four hours and forty
minutes into the battle. The Losses are:

Enemy: 2 subs, 46 total aircraft.

Friendly: zero losses.

Zulu 1228: VF-111 \#8 shot down one Su-33, missed once while \#9 also
missed. VF-111 \#3 ended up shooting down the other. A hot air
engagement is taking place south of the other enemy TG. Six total Su-33s
are picking on four of my Grim Reapers. VF-111 \#2 shot down two Su-33s
blitzing at top speed at him and \#3.

Zulu 1242: 11 Sqn \#4 and \#5 shot down two and one Backfire Cs
respectively east of Iceland, had enough fuel to try and attack more
support craft behind the southern TG.

Zulu 1253: VF-111 \#2 shot down one more Su-33 before expending all
Phoenix missiles. 11 Sqn \#4 shot down a Badger 1/2D.

Zulu 1300: VF-111 \#5 shot down the last airborne Su-33 from the western
enemy TG. 11 Sqn \# 4 and \#5 each shot down a Badger D and a Badger L.
All missiles and most gun ammo expended; they return home in triumph.

Zulu 1308: 493 Sqn \#5 shot down last known Su-33 in the air from
southern TG, headed home due to fuel shortage.

Zulu 1309: Goblin contact 58nm east of the 24th Infantry convoy. ID’d as
an SSN by VP-3 \#2. It is destroyed at Zulu 1312. A Nimrod crashed, have
no idea how that happened.

Zulu 1320: VFA-132 \#1 and \#2 each shot down a Su-33 close to the enemy
western TG. Took 8 total AMRAAMs to do it (should have seen the dice
rolls) while the enemy was flying straight and level to land back to
their base. Frustrating.

Zulu 1322: VF-111 \#4 shot down one Su-33 from long range while covering
VFA-132’s retreat from missiles. Meanwhile, I launch four Eagles from
Thule AFB to hunt for bombers deep inside enemy territory. I send a
tanker over Greenland to assist with fueling, looking at long flights.
Unassigned a Sentry and sent it closer to Iceland for additional radar
detection. Finally, I send all 12 fighters from VFA-137 to Goose Bay and
assigned all VFA-136 to Enterprise. Swapping out Sparrow equipped
Hornets for ones that can use AMRAAMs.

Zulu 1333: VF-111 \#4 shot down two Su-33s chasing friendly fighters.

Zulu 1346: VF-51 \#6 shot down one Su-33. VFA-132 \#1 and \#2 shot down
one Su-33 apiece.

Zulu 1349: VF-51 \#9 shot down one Su-33.

Zulu 1404: USS Portsmouth detects a Goblin contact 14nm to the SSE. It
was confirmed as an SSN, launches two torpedoes. It is sunk, confirmed
as a Victor III class sub.

Zulu 1423: Launched ten of 12 VA-176 Hornets, each loaded with 4 harpoon
missiles to attack the western TG while their CAP was down. Risky, but
maybe worth taking a few ships down.

Zulu 1450: VFA-132 \#5, \#6 each shot down a Su-33 that was chasing one
of my Tomcats.

The First Strike begins. Fighters from VF-51 \#5,\#6, \#7, \#8, and \#12
cleared out Helix helicopters for the subs to close in. The VA-176
dropped to 12000 feet. Forty total missiles fired. Eight fired at each
of the two forward DDGs, 12 at each of the heavy ships flanking the
carrier. One Udaloy sunk, another ablaze and flooding. The Slava took
one hit, while the Kirov avoided damage by firing a beehive of SAMs. The
Slava returned fire with about 20 or so SSMs but were all shot down by
my valiant fighters. Just SW of Iceland, two groups of ground-based
fighters were detected heading towards my ships. I launch many of my
remaining Tomcats to intercept before they reach my TG. The Portsmouth
and the San Juan are minutes from finishing off the Kuznetsov Group.
Three flights of F-15s from 122 FS of Louisiana are about to pounce on a
bunch of enemy bombers NW of Iceland. The wave of enemy planes from
Iceland turned out to be Su-24s sent to attack my ships without fighter
cover. It was a slaughter. The ANG F-15s discovered A scattering of
Foxhounds north and northeast of Iceland. I pull them away from bomber
hunting. When the madness was over, the enemy lost 24 Fencers, two
Fulcrums, 2 Su-33s, and seven different bomber types. NO LOSSES on my
end!

Zulu 1549: Goblin contact detected by sonobuoy SE of my TG. I sent
several ASW /assets to investigate. At 6kts, it’s moving too fast to be
bios. It is confirmed by sonobuoys to be a Victor III class. Sunk by
VS-28 \#6.

Zulu 1610: San Juan begins torpedo attacks on TG Kuznetsov. Moments
later, the burning Slava counterattacks. The San Juan auto-fired all
remaining torpedoes while evading the enemy torpedo. Kalinin and Udaloy
are sunk at 1619. San Juan miraculously avoids two torpedoes. The
Kuznetsov is hit five times, heavy damage. I do risk sending in the
Portsmouth to finish them off. Minutes later, the Kalinin sinks.

Zulu 1628: Small air battle begins SW of TG Varyag. VF-111 \#4, \#5,
each shot down two Su-33; \#6 shot down one.

Zulu 1655: Ground contacts detected in Iceland. Looks like the entire
Russian air defense corps are protecting Keflavik.

Zulu 1730: USS Portsmouth attacks Kuznetsov TG. Slava is sunk with two
torpedoes, a third one sails just south of the crippled Kuznetsov, it
may have enough fuel to attack the vessel on the far left. Two more
torpedoes fired at the Sovremenny-class. At 1744, the Besstrashnyy is
sunk by two torpedoes. With the remaining sonobuoys and flying helos, I
retreat the Portsmouth and leave the rest to the air strikes that will
be coming soon. Very soon.

Zulu 1804: Goblin contact detected by VA-28 \#1 NE of TG.

Zulu 1805: A large group of air contacts from Keflavik spotted heading
south, made up of Fulcrums. 12 in number. Range from TG Enterprise is
roughly 420nm away. I have only 8 Tomcats ready to launch and challenge
them. Piece of cake.

Zulu 1815: 11Sqn RAF \#12 managed to sneak behind enemy TG and shot down
a Be-12PL Mail and snuck away from pursuing Fulcrums.

Zulu 1829: VS-28 Gamblers \#1 engaged and destroyed an enemy SSN with
two Barracuda torpedoes. Confirmed as a Sierra-1, class.

Zulu 1856: VF-51 \#5-10 shot down a total of 12 Fulcrums that were
headed south to cause havok on the ships in the SLOC.

Zulu 1902: VF-51 \#11, \#9 each shot down one Su-33 from the Varyag TG.
Eight phoenix missiles fired, two hits (Really bad dice rolls).

Zulu 1906: VF-51 \#1 and \#2 spent five Phoenix and 4 Sparrows to shoot
down four Su-24 Fencers aimed at attacking TG Enterprise.

Zulu 1915: Two Backfires fired four cruise missiles at my TG, all were
shot down. VF-111 \#7 and VF-51 \#12 moved in for the chase, then found
a third Backfire closing in. \#7 shot down two, \#12 one Backfire.

Zulu 1918: Goblin contact inside the SLOC almost directly between USA
and France. I have a lone Orion, 405 Sqn RCAF \#5 nearby to deal with
it. Later confirmed to be a Victor-II class sub. It is sunk at Zulu
1942.

I launch all available Hornets armed with Harpoons to attack the TG
Varyag with 8 VF-111s for fighter cover. They’re going down.

Zulu 1920: 11 Sqn RAF \#3, \#4 each shot down a Backfire close to
Iceland.

Lots of individual and small air skirmishes shown massive dice rolls in
favor of the enemy spoofing my missiles far too often.

Zulu 1932: 11 Sqn RAF \#3 shot down another Backfire, closes in on a
Badger D.

Zulu 1940: 492 Sqn \#4 shot down two Fulcrums.

Zulu 1950: A second wave of 14 Fencers from Keflavik was detected
heading for TG Enterprise. I have 8 fully loaded F14s from VF-51 on the
way to greet them.

Zulu 1953: Kuznetsov finally sinks.

Zulu 2005: My fighters begin attacking the enemy Fencer formation. As
that happened, another goblin contact detected by sonobuoy inside the
SLOC. The 45 Sqn \#5 has another chance for a kill. Finally, the Harpoon
equipped Hornets and Intruders begin attacking the TG Varyag group. One
Sovremenny, one Udaloy, and one Kirov class vessels identified. When it
was all over, only the carrier and a DDG remained. I leave them as prey
for the USS Chicago and the HMS Talent.

Zulu 2113: USS Portsmouth used all its harpoon missiles to sink the last
enemy ship from TG Kuznetsov. The path to Keflavik is no longer hindered
by enemy ships. Maybe subs.

Zulu 2217: I transfer four stratotankers from Burlinton AFB to CFB
Gander, while sending the two stratotanker in Gander to UK for the 493
to use. US planes cannot fuel with UK tankers.

Zulu 2225: Three flights of 493 fighters are near eastern side of
Iceland looking to pick off jammers and bombers.

Zulu 2300: USS Chicago begins attack on the Varyag with eight torpedoes.
The Sovremenny-class DDG next to it was sunk by harpoon missiles. The
Varyag is sinking and is left to capsize on its own.

Zulu 2345: Varyag sinks. No enemy ships are in the Atlantic. All that’s
left are subs and scattered aircraft to deal with. The SLOC is secured
for the most part. Next up: Keflavic.

Zulu 2348: Incoming cruise missiles detected between the USS Chicago and
TG Enterprise. I send the sub to investigate while these missiles were
dealt with. I have not found where those missiles came from or from
what.

UPDATE REPORT: Enemy losses totals 221 aircraft, not including
helicopters.

**DAY TWO**

Zulu 0010: Scattered contacts of various Badgers, Foxhounds, and
Backfires appeared from eastern coast of Iceland to enter the GIUK.
Nothing in large numbers.

The next two hours are spent hunting scattered enemy fighters around
Iceland.

I conducted an UNREP for TG Enterprise to reload my depleted Phoenix and
SLAM missiles (Scenario Editor in truth).

Zulu 0344: Goblin contact 87nm to the rear of TG-E detected by sonobuoy.
Probably bios but not taking chances. I launch some ASW planes to
investigate. Four minutes later, confirmed to be an Oscar-I class sub.
VS-28 Gamblers \#1 will destroy it.

Zulu 0345: Engaging Foxhounds with my F14Bs from long range between
Greenland and Iceland. Good kills tallied here.

Zulu 0421: VS-28 \#1 uses three torpedoes to sink the boomer. VFMA-251
is relocated to Gander CFB for possible use with TG-E. Two tankers and a
Sentry is sent to Thule AFB to assist in the eventual big fight over
Greenland. There’s practically no enemy aircraft flying over Iceland.

Zulu 0700: Launched 24 total F/A18s from Gander and Goose Bay to join in
with TG-E on the attack on Keflavik. Each loaded with SLAMs. They will
be fueled to and from the strike area. I had launched four total
Stratotankers ahead of them to get fueling stations online, with more
holding at the bases in case I need more fuel. Add in 12 Intruders, 18
Hornets with SLAMs, 6 Hornets with HARMs, 3 Prowlers with HARMs, and 178
total Tomahawk missiles, I plan on giving Keflavik a face lift.

(TECHNICAL NOTE: My f-16s from Goose Bay landed at Thule fully loaded
with Sparrow III heavy. Upon landing and parked, all of them were placed
in Reserve and Ready with no weapons. The system would not allow me to
rearm normally. Had to use editor to change that.)

Zulu 0900: The Attack on Keflavik begun

First, I closed in with the aircraft as low as possible to get positive
locks on targets. Once I had most of the targets ID’d, I launched every
possible Tomahawk missile and had the fighters and bombers loiter close
by at minimum altitude while the missiles would fly past them. The goal
was for the Tomahawks to absorb as many SAMs as possible before
launching my ASMs.

Ended in a whimper. Only destroyed two radar sites and about six SAM
sites. Had to land everything to rearm with what I could. Managed to
pack over 90 aircraft onto the Enterprise, as some of the Hornets were
unable to return to the land bases despite the large number of tankers
in the air to support. A second strike is needed but without any
Tomahawks to support. The good news is that there are no enemy bombers
nor ships to be worried about. I had returned the Kestrels, VFA-137,
back to Enterprise, as they were already loaded with SLAMS but didn’t
fire because of fuel shortages. The Big E is probably maxed out in
hanger capacity now. The other 12 Hornets of VMFA-251 returns to Gander
CFB.

Zulu 1315: Contemplated on using Thule AFB to attack the rear areas of
the Russians to take down their Foxhounds and support craft. I had
landed the 134 Vermont ANG of F-16s to assist with the 122 LA ANG of
F15s, a few tankers, and a pair of Sentrys to do this. Thought the
better of it, as this was risky and likely to suffer unacceptable
losses.

Zulu 1348: A pair of Flanker-Bs are chasing some of my Tornado’s all
over eastern Ireland. They will soon run out of fuel and die. I have a
total of 106 aircraft and helos landed on the Big-E. It’s probably
surpassed the capacity but the game is allowing it so I’m not
complaining.

Zulu 1355: 11Sqn \#7, \#8, each shot down one Flanker-B.

Zulu 1412: 11 Sqn \#9 shot down a Backfire-C

Zulu 1600: TG-E turns east to run parallel with the southern coast of
Iceland. The idea is to get closer to UK for additional land-based
fighter support. Assets from USA and Canada are now too far away to be
of any real extended use to me.

Zulu 1644: 11 Sqn \#1, \#2, Shot down one Flanker-B. Took 9 missiles to
do it (Dice rolls from hell).

Zulu 1700: I began to send flights of Tomcats east then north deep into
enemy territory to hunt down Foxhounds and other aircraft. Used tankers
based in Lossiemouth to extend their range. I was completely confident
there are zero enemy fighters from Iceland to worry about.

Zulu 1826: VF-111 \#9, \#10, began shooting down tankers 180nm east of
Jan Mayan. Dice rolls were pathetic. Took way too many missiles and
gunshots to bring down four slow tankers. I attributed this to pilot
fatigue. Later managed to shoot down two Backfire-Cs before returning to
the Big-E.

Zulu 1940: I launch two Nimrods from 201 Sqn out of Lossiemouth to lay
more sonobuoys in front of TF-E. Last thing I need is a brave Russian
sub sneaking past my ASW net. I wait 20 more minutes to launch my second
Keflavik airstrike. My Tomahawks are all expended but I have plenty of
ASMs to use. I send three more flights of Tomcats east of Jan Mayan to
pick off more enemy planes.

Zulu 2000: The second Keflavik Airstrike mission began. 61 total
aircraft consisting of F/A-18s, and A-6 Intruders loaded with missiles.
I lined them all up 110nm from Keflavik, then in 1830: I attacked.
Approaching at 1000 feet, I launched everything once the weapons were
within range. When it was all over, only four known SAM sites remained
and those were reduced to less than ten total launch tubes.

Zulu 2100: The game was called, there was nothing left to fight for.

Total score: 2555 victory points!

Losses: NATO

-   1x EA-6B Prowler ICAP II Blk 86

-   1x Nimrod MR.2P

Losses: Warsaw Pact

-   8x 23mm ZU-23-2 \[BTR-ZD\] \[Cargo\]

-   21x 3MS-2 Bison B \[Tanker\]

-   1x A/C Hangar (4x Large Aircraft)

-   11x Be-12PL Mail

-   2x BPK Udaloy I \[Pr.1155 Fregat\]

-   2x BPK Udaloy II \[PR.1155.1 Fregat-M\]

-   2x EM Sovremenny I \[Pr.956 Sarych\]

-   2x EM Sovremenny I \[Pr.956A Sarych\]

-   2x Ka-25Ts Hormone B

-   21x Ka-27PL Helix A

-   5x Ka-27PL Helix A

-   1x Ka-27PL Helix A

-   7x Ka-29RLD Helix

-   38x MiG-29 Fulcrum C

-   10x MiG-31 Foxhound

-   24x MiG-31B Foxhound

-   1x PL-877M Kilo

-   2x PLA-671RT Victor II \[Syomga\]

-   2x PLA-671RTM Victor III \[Shchuka\]

-   2x PLA-671RTMK Victor III \[Shchuka\]

-   1x PLA-945 Sierra I \[Barrakuda\]

-   1x PLARK-949 Oscar I \[Granit\]

-   2x Radar (Big Bird B \[5N64S\])

-   2x Radar (Long Track \[P-40\])

-   2x RKR Kirov \[Pr.1144 Orlan\]

-   2x RKR Slava \[Pr.1164 Atlant\]

-   36x SA-10b Grumble \[5P85S\] TEL \[Cargo\]

-   16x SA-12a Gladiator \[9A83\] TELAR \[Cargo\]

-   8x SA-12a Gladiator \[9A84\] LLV \[Cargo\]

-   7x SA-12b Giant \[9A82\] TELAR \[Cargo\]

-   4x SA-12b Giant \[9A85\] LLV \[Cargo\]

-   12x SA-16 Gimlet \[9K310 Igla-1\] MANPADS \[Cargo\]

-   24x SA-20a Gargoyle \[5P85SE\] TEL \[Cargo\]

-   7x SA-6a Gainful \[2P25\] TEL \[Cargo\]

-   39x Su-24M Fencer D

-   7x Su-24MP Fencer F

-   8x Su-24MR Fencer E

-   2x Su-27S Flanker B

-   12x Su-27S Flanker B

-   48x Su-33 Flanker D

-   1x TAKR Admiral Kuznetsov \[Pr.1143.5\]

-   1x TAKR Admiral Kuznetsov \[Pr.1143.5\]

-   8x Tu-16P Badger J

-   2x Tu-16P Badger J

-   5x Tu-16P Badger L

-   5x Tu-16P Badger L

-   10x Tu-16RM-1/2 Badger D

-   10x Tu-16Ye Badger K

-   42x Tu-22M-3 Backfire C

-   7x Vehicle (Clam Shell \[5N66\]) \[Cargo\]

-   2x Vehicle (Flap Lid B \[5N63S\]) \[Cargo\]

-   4x Vehicle (Grill Pan \[9S32-1\]) \[Cargo\]

-   1x Vehicle (Straight Flush \[1S91\]) \[Cargo\]

-   4x Vehicle (Tombstone \[30N6\]) \[Cargo\]
