**Indian Ocean Fury \#2 â€“ Mozambique Madness**

**<u>Playtest Report by AndrewJ July 2017</u>**

Well I'm only at the first evening so far, having survived the raids on
the Ark Royal and the Kenyan Base (barely), and extracted the LST from
the pirate horde. I think I've found the Cruiser and her escort (but I'm
not going down below the clouds to see... let the sub handle that),
Harriers are flying in from the distant Americans, and I might be in
position to concentrate before I can get picked off piecemeal. This is
quite an interesting one so far. Next decision: How much sleep to
sacrifice to see what's next?

---

Effing Shaddock! It's the middle of the night and suddenly a Cessna pops
up out of nowhere, flying right over one of my Kenyan missile boats. It
gets gunned down, but 12 minutes later - WHAM - no more missile boat.

(This is a good scenario...)

EDIT: Eat Otomat, Soviet dogs!

---

Well, this was a fun one, particularly in the opening stages before I
could concentrate my forces and get my act together. The uncertainty of
where the next odd little threat might pop up to threaten my weak
position was very interesting. The final couple of days as my forces
concentrated and patrolled in AA Sierra were fairly routine, but that's
what time compression is for.

**Playthrough**

As we observed the attacks start my ships were directed to close up,
with my southern warships intending to rendezvous north of the Comoros,
while the Northern ones were to turn away from the Somali coast and form
up further out to sea. The various amphibs and supply ships were to
rendezvous (eventually) in the SE corner of AA Sierra. However, the
announcement that Madagascar was probably hunting the French north of
their island caused a change of plan, and I sent the little Floreal
rushing (as best she could) NE to meet the Cardiff coming SW, in the
hopes that I could get her to safety.

The next announcement was a bit more alarming. A Kresta and a Kanin
operating in the area? Crappity crap! The Kenyan patrol boat at sea was
ordered to run for home, since it did't have a hope if the Russians are
in the area. Unfortunately, this didn't help against the Tanzanian air
strike which sank it minutes later.

I'm also finding that there are waaay to many little boats near my LST
up by Somalia, and my calm withdrawal turns into a flank-speed retreat
as swarms of the little bastards close in. I end up steering a
serpentine course to alternately bring my side-mounted 76mm guns to bear
on the closing horde and manage to sink some and damage the rest so they
have to slow down, and I just manage to get clear. Next, I get a message
to protect local shipping from the swarm. Yessir, but how? The Spanish
frigate Cazadora is on the way from the N, but still too far out. The
Perry is busy cleaning up a few other pirates further south along the
coast and won't get there in time. So, the LST turns back to the fray! A
lot more gun-work follows, and the LST soon has to retire black on ammo.
The Perry does a good job too, with its helicopters performing valuable
spotting work, finding a captured platform (which earns a Harpoon), and
a 'rigged' tanker presumably captured for refuelling purposes (which
earns another one). When she arrives the Cazadora turns out to be a very
effective anti-pirate ship, with her 40mm cannons doing very good work,
until eventually the pirate swarm is whittled down and rendered
inoperative. Some of the Kenyan patrol boats arrive a day or two later
to clean up the damaged stragglers which are heading home at low speed
or are dead in the water, and air-strikes on the docks are also very
helpful at dealing with a few dozen pirates still in port. The whole
pirate situation took nearly two days to resolve, and I found myself
continually getting pushed around by them, especially the swarms of fast
moving RHIBs that even my destroyers (with their dwindling ammo
reserves) didn't want to tackle head-on.

Meanwhile the air situation was getting exciting. Down south the Brits
had been tolerant of little prop planes that were 'coincidentally'
nearby, but when Migs were detected forming up over Mozambique the
tolerance ended. Sea Darts work well against that sort of target, and my
Sea Harriers did their best against the incoming Migs, but there weren't
enough to keep the enemy away. It took some sharp shooting from Sea
Darts and Sea Wolfs to get the last of the attack planes. The next wave
from Madagascar was more problematic, with my Sea Harriers still
reloading, and ground attack Harriers were thrown into the fray to use
their defensive Sidewinders (before being sent along to attack
Madagascar's patrol boats), but it came down to my SAMs again, and even
the Arc Royal had to turn on her radars and start shooting. The attack
was defeated, but I had to expend a lot of additional SAMs when the
strike escorts (gun-armed Mig-17s which I had hoped to ignore) bored in
on my AEW helicopter. Fortunately, they broke off and headed home before
they killed my helicopter. (Incidentally, I'm really starting to
appreciate the long-range SAMs on the small British carriers. This is
not the first time I've had to use them. I used to think that they'd
have been better off with another couple of planes, but that wouldn't
have helped in this circumstance, with everyone reloading. With a small
air wing, having a reliable 'always ready' long-range SAM loadout has
proved to be very useful.)

As that's going on the next crisis is in Kenya, with a big well-escorted
attack from the direction of Entebbe. Twenty-two coming in, and I've
only got 10 to defend with! I scramble all my F-5s, and anything else
which can fly is ordered into the air to evacuate over the coast. My
supersonic F-5s can get to the raid in time, no problem, but the
difficulty is that I only have rear-aspect missiles, so my usual
'head-on' intercept won't work, and the escort of nimble Mig-21s would
eat me alive if I try to swing in on the attack planes. My first planes
are easily turned aside by the defenders, and they have to run away
(thank heavens for the short range of the enemy Aphids), but as the
escort pursues them the main strike pulls ahead, and the rest of my
planes manage to get in among the raid. The escorts turn to try and save
their charges, but they are now too far back to get there in time, and
the raid is destroyed by my remaining aircraft. As the saddened escort
runs out of fuel and turns home the merciless Kenyans take the
opportunity to pursue...

As that raid dies down I start making attacks of my own in the evening
and night. The British start using their Harriers to deal with the
southern AGI and Madagascar's patrol boats, trying to keep them off
local shipping, and low altitude night attacks do a good job against the
parked aircraft at Nacala airport in Mozambique. A similar raid on the
airfield in Andrakaka in Madagascar proves fruitless, with no planes
spotted there, but the attackers do find a couple of LSTs in the
adjoining naval base, so they sink those instead. Meantime the British
carrier group blithely steams past a lurking Tango, 11 nm to the port,
but don't manage to detect it. The Tango does hear the passing Brits
(due to their active sonar) as well as dipping sonars and active
sonobuoys, but can't get into position to attack at creep speed, so it
gets bypassed. The Charlie isn't so lucky, and it gets detected by HMS
Brave's excellent towed array in the first CZ, and is quickly prosecuted
and sunk by helicopters. (All my MPA are way out of position up north
keeping an eye on things there.)

Speaking of North, there is a Soviet SAG up there, and I've identified
two probable candidates, steaming together at 18 knots in the general
direction of Mombasa, but they're not emitting, and I'm reluctant to
take a close range look with a lumbering MPA. If those are the Soviets
the MPA wouldn't last long. I don't see any other candidates at the
moment, and I continue to monitor. In the meantime my Kenyan patrol
boats sortie from Mombasa. The gunboats head north to engage the Somali
pirates, and the Nyayos with their long range Otomats stay 30 miles off
Mombasa, while the Madarakas head SE to engage the Tanzanian patrol
boats with their Gabriels. They stay safely out of gun range and
efficiently execute the foe before turning for home in good order. (They
forget about the possibility of enemy torpedoes, some of which are
actually launched in their direction, but with no way to detect them
they are blissfully unaware they were engaged.)

In the meantime a Sea Harrier with Sea Eagles has been closing on the
suspected SAG. It's proceeding on a predictable course, so I launch the
two missiles BOL timed for a very close range seeker activation (hoping
that this isn't a pair of merchants heading for port). At the predicted
impact time MPA pick up radar and jammer emissions from the group - so
it's not merchants after all! The Harrier pilot reports a brief flash
from the horizon, so evidently there was at least one hit, and the group
begins slowing down, but both contacts remain on radar. Therefore, the
Otomat missile boats are ordered to begin closing in on the group under
cover of darkness.

That's when another of those pesky prop planes shows up over my patrol
boats (as mentioned earlier) and the Kresta promptly annihilates one
with a Shaddock that weighs nearly as much as the patrol boat. The
admiral receives this news in the calm and dignified manner to which he
is accustomed, and the Nyayo missile boats (which have just entered
missile range) are ordered to fire on the enemy. Four missiles arrive at
each target, and the enemy is duly sunk. Not long after this a large
flight of aircraft arrives in the area from Tanzania, presumably hunting
for my patrol boats, which are all heading out of the area at high
speed. They're dangerously close to some of my ships, but they're having
difficulty finding them in the dark. Some of my F-5s make it to the
area, but we have trouble localising the enemy in the dark too! Our
radars don't have good look-down capability, and the enemy is down just
above the waves. A really odd fight follows, in which after groping
around blindly at low altitude we manage to kill some of the enemy,
before most of them run out of fuel and head home (some making it
safely).

Dawn brings the excitement of another raid from Madagascar. I see the
spotter plane (another wretched prop-job) but don't manage to get it
before it spots a freighter and calls up the raid. I wind up bringing in
the Herc tanker to allow my Harriers (including some of the Americans
from the Peleliu, which flew in overnight) to pursue the retreating
enemy all the way back to their airbases in the center of the island,
getting the majority of them before they can land.

But I don't have it all my way, when explosions rock the Mombasa naval
base. The Tanzanians have made a strike from Ngerengere, and I was
completely out of position and never saw it coming. In the aftermath
some of my patrol boats un-dock and deploy immediately around the base
as AAA batteries (they can't shoot while docked), so I have a modest
amount of protection if they try again. To mask my shame the Hawks at
Laikipia are ordered to hit Mwanza (the only thing in range), and they
manage to destroy a large number of planes and facilities on the ground.
Later in the day Harriers arrive to do the same thing at Ngerengere, and
after that the enemy is left with little effective air-power.

Of course they still have some sea-power, as the startled French
discover when the Jeanne d'Arc group hears torpedoes in the water! They
turn and run, firing a torpedo down the bearing, dodging, and firing
another. With the enemy sub clearing the area from my speculative torp
shots his sonar is degraded, so my dodging manages to work, and the
fleeing French ships manage to make it to safety. I hastily rearrange my
MPA to hunt in the area where the torpedoes came from, and although it
takes a couple of hours for them to get there I manage to find and kill
some sort of SSN (an Akula, it turns out).

That turns out to be the last major resistance I face. My groups
eventually rendezvous in the AA Sierra, and loiter there until the end
of the scenario a couple of days later. (I actually called it off with a
day and a half to go.) I never did find the Soviet support ships. I had
assumed they would be somewhere along the Tanzanian or Mozambique coast,
perhaps in a hidden harbour somewhere, so their placement at tiny little
atolls way out at sea completely eluded me. I never met the Victor, and
the Tango continued to patrol uneventfully.
