**<u>Northern Fury \#20 – BUFF Stampede</u>**

**<u>AAR by fitzpatv, Jan 2022</u>**

No, not a horde of naked ‘jarheads’ storming the beaches of Iceland!. As
I’m sure you know, ‘BUFF’ stands for ‘Big Ugly Fat F\*\*\*\*\*’ and is a
nickname for the venerable B-52. As the second phase of its transit to
the UK, the USAF throws the heavy bombers against the defences on
Iceland before sending them on to airbases in Southern England.

In all, you get to play with 30 B-52s, as well as a dozen newer, faster
B-1 Lancers and the first available B-2 stealth bomber, christened the
‘Spirit of Missouri’. Nineteen AMRAAM-armed F-16s and nine EF-111 EW
planes are on hand as escorts and there is copious tanker support, both
from the States, Greenland and RAF Mildenhall. There are also some
Hornet MRCAs, Prowlers, Orions and Sentries based in Greenland and the
Dragon Lady and Rivet Joint remain in-harness for their limited ELINT
value. USS Scranton lurks off Western Iceland and is authorised to use
up to eight TLAMs as well as her four Harpoons.

The focus is on destroying Soviet logistical facilities on Iceland and a
number of targets are clearly indicated, notably ten supply depots
scattered around the country but mostly in the Reykjavik/Keflavik
region.

Earlier raids have finally begun to make a difference against the
Russian defences, which are not as formidable as before. All of the
Gargoyle and Grumble sites have been destroyed or run out of ammo and
the remaining SAMs are mostly Greyhounds and Grisom/Tunguskas, which
can’t engage high-flying aircraft. There’s still a Gladiator/Giant site,
but this is primarily an ABM weapon and it did not interfere with me on
this playthrough, keeping its head well down. This leaves two problems.

Firstly, there are still unhealthy numbers of Soviet fighters, including
the wretched Foxhounds which, for me at least, are by far their best
aircraft. I respect Flankers and, to an extent, Fulcrums, but MiG-31s
scare me with their excellent radar, missile range/capacity and speed.
The nineteen outranged F-16s are going to have a busy time.

Secondly, almost all of your heavy bombers carry iron bombs!. Lots of
them, but you need to get right over the target to deliver them, which
is highly dangerous with Foxhounds about. Two B-52s have 4 AGM-86s each.
These pack an almighty punch and can be fired very safely from 700nm
away. The B-2 has 16 GBU-36s, with a range of 12nm, which trusts a lot
to her stealth capabilities. Other than that, there are the TLAMs or you
have to take your chances and put the lumbering B-52s and somewhat
faster Lancers in harm’s way.

A number of Soviet SSNs are on the prowl. While these are only a danger
to Scranton, these potentially offer a chance to score some points with
your two Orions, though they have a lot of ocean to search. The P-3s
also have Harpoons, so they can target the Mayak AGI ship, which is
still about or, potentially, cargo ships bringing supplies to the
garrison.

As with Anteater’s Revenge, you are given an advance base over S
Greenland, which is really a staging area supported by even more tankers
than those physically represented in the game. If you are playing the
scenario in the spirit intended by Bart, you should launch all aircraft
as they become available here (from Hour 3 to Hour 9), then juggle the
increasing complexity as the game unfolds. Again, I wrote-out a schedule
to help myself monitor this. In practice, the task is rather easier than
it was in Anteater’s Revenge, because heavy bombers are blessed with
terrific endurance and can mostly outlast the 16-hour scenario limit. I
was therefore able to move them into a safe holding area well to the S
of Iceland and then deploy them or move them on to the UK as I wished.
Tanker support could instead focus on nourishing the F-16s and, to a
lesser extent, the EF-111s, enabling them to remain on station.

Ultimately, all bombers from Barksdale Forward Base need to go to RAF
Fairford, with F-16s and EF-111s transiting to Upper Hayford and tankers
(other than those starting in Greenland or Mildenhall) to RAF Brize
Norton. An exception is the B-2, which is ordered to return to the US
and can be sent back to Barksdale FB (as can other planes for practical
purposes). Planes based in Greenland continue to be so.

23/2/94 18:00Z : For the first few hours, you must make do with the
Greenlandic /assets, ELINT planes and Scranton. There was no sign of any
Russian CAP to begin-with and they were using a Big Back radar near
Hornafjordur for air search. I devised a plan to knock this out using a
HARM Hornet from Greenland, supported by a Stratotanker, but this
fizzled-out in frustration when the radar switched-off as soon as the
F-18 got into position, the Soviets coincidentally switching to CAP
radars instead. I left the Hornet near the tanker for a while, but
eventually sent her home.

19:00 : I decided I might as well use Scranton before she was ambushed
by a Russian SSN. Six TLAMs wrecked a supply depot near Saudarkrokur in
NW Iceland. I only needed two, as it happened but, when the target has
1,500 DP and weapons tend to malfunction, caution seems advisory. This
scored 15 VP. The sub’s other two missiles took-out a warehouse near
Keflavik for the same amount. With no active radar apart from the Big
Back, which was terrain-masked, the Russians never saw the TLAMs coming.
Meanwhile, an Orion located the Mayak off E Greenland and efficiently
disposed of her for another 5 VP.

22:00 : The Spirit of Missouri carried-out an attack on Keflavik,
encouraged by a lack of Soviet CAP (which was mostly off NW Iceland at
this stage). How necessary her stealth was on this occasion is hard to
gauge, owing to lack of enemy radar. Her impressive firepower,
distributed manually, destroyed a depot and two warehouses for 15 VP
each, plus four barrack blocks for 1 VP each. Unfortunately, the GBU-36
wasn’t as precise a weapon as I’d hoped and, by targetting the other
enemy /assets in the area (a staff quarters and some helipads), I missed
and wrecked some civilian housing instead, losing 45 VP for an overall
gain of just four. The B-2 then escaped with no problems.

Meanwhile, the B-52s with AGM-86s struck and destroyed three more depots
in the Reykjavik region. This caused the Russians to wake-up and some of
the missiles were downed by Tunguskas and scrambling Fulcrums. I kept
some in reserve.

23:00 : Falcons with Raven EW support engaged the stirring Soviet CAP,
downing 2 Foxhounds, 4 Flankers, 4 Fulcrums and 5 Flogger Ks for the
loss of one F-16. Keep spread-out, close with radars off, illuminate to
fire, then switch them off and scram on Afterburner tends to work very
well. The 5-1 VP ratio continues to apply, however, so the net gain was
just 10 points. Meanwhile, the remaining AGM-86s were loosed, but the
Soviet fighters managed to intercept the ones heading for the Reykjavik
area. Two aimed at the Vopnafjordur depot in NE Iceland stole through
and continued on their way.

24:00 : The Russians made one of those annoying Foxhound/Flanker
incursions, which was accompanied by a rash of virtual dice rolls in
their favour (we failed to kill the MiG-31s early). We lost an F-16 and
a Stratotanker (-15 VP) for both Foxhounds, the Flanker and a Flogger,
for a net loss of 16 points. A feature of the game is that, while
player-controlled units have de facto morale issues, the AI just doesn’t
give a monkey’s about losing planes and fighters just keep suicidally
boring into your formation, blazing away until destroyed. A Foxhound is
surely worth an F-16 and there is no way that a tanker equates to 15
Soviet fighters, especially when NATO has so many of them. The victory
point schedule makes it very hard to win this series of scenarios.

The last pair of AGM-86s almost levelled things up by destroying the
Vopnafjordur depot (which presumably contained several times as much
supply as the tanker).

24/2/94 01:00 : Needing points to win and unsure where the Minor Victory
boundary was, I sent a pair of B-1s against the most accessible
surviving depot. The plan was to expose just one bomber at a time and
rely on its relatively high speed to escape. Three Floggers tried to
intervene from the E, but were butchered by the escorts. The first
Lancer missed completely, whereupon a lone Flanker took-off from
Reykjavik, nailing an F-16 before another took revenge. The second
bomber followed, demolishing the depot for an overall gain of 14 VP.
Frustratingly, +107 was still only Average. We also spotted several
ships at anchor at Reykjavik.

02:00 : A second pair of B-1s raided the outlying Soviet airbase on the
Vestmannaeyjar. Again, the first one did no damage at all, but the
second smashed two hangars, an ammo pad, the control tower and a
short-range 2D radar. This scored 5 VP, but the score was still Average.

Next, a fifth Lancer took a chance and succeeded in eliminating the
depot in suburban Reykjavik. No damage to civilian housing this time,
apparently! A mystery aircraft approached from the NE with radars off
and required four AMRAAMs to kill – it turned-out to be a returning
Fencer E.

With +128 still not enough, the last B-1 I was prepared to risk (the
others carried Mk82 AIR bombs which have to be released at low altitude)
went after the two surviving depots NE of Reykjavik. Appallingly, it
missed completely with 42 bombs at each. Lancers seem to define ‘hit and
miss’.

03:00 : As I pondered sending B-52s in to finish the job, a message
arrived reminding me to clear the airspace by 06:00. On balance, it
seemed best to get on with this. An Orion fired four Harpoons at one of
the ships in the harbour but unluckily chose a cruise liner, sinking
her. Perhaps because it was docked and empty (?) this cost no points.

All aircraft then transited to their intended destinations apart from a
tanker which had been heavily-used and had to return to the Forward Base
(you can’t watch everything).

So it finished as a theoretical ‘Draw’ with a score of +128. The US lost
3 fighters and a tanker and hit a couple of civilian targets. The USSR
lost 23 fighters, a recon plane, an AGI ship, 8 depots, a radar, 2
hangars, an ammo pad, a control tower, 4 barracks and 3 other buildings.
As with Decapitation, I consider that a reasonable effort, especially as
I didn’t lose a single bomber. Doing better would require taking more
chances with the B-52s, which could cost lots of points if you lose any.
