**Indian Ocean Fury \#3 – Socotra Scramble**

**<u>AAR by fitzpatv, July 2023</u>**

As war breaks out, the Soviets and their regional allies (Yemen,
Ethiopia, Eritrea and Sudan) have closed the Bab-al-Mandeb strait at the
Southern entrance to the Red Sea, thereby interfering with passage
towards and from the Suez Canal. USS Nimitz is urgently needed to
reinforce NATO in the Mediterranean, but is currently in the approaches
to the Gulf of Aden and has to get through the Red Sea in the next few
days. Guarding the E end of the Gulf of Aden is the Soviet base on the
‘waterless isle of Socotra’ (as it was first described to me), which has
to be neutralised en route, along with another base on Dahlak Island in
the Southern Red Sea and as many Warsaw Pact-aligned forces as possible.
You can only play the NATO side.

Nimitz is escorted by the cruiser Worden, the destroyers John Paul Jones
and Briscoe and the frigate Stephen W Groves. She has a large air group,
but no AMRAAMs (just Phoenixes and Sparrows) and a limited range of
strike munitions.

Moving to rendezvous with Nimitz is a task group comprising the cruisers
Wainwright and Gettysburg and the destroyer Leftwich. These units have
seen action in the disastrous affray in the Persian Gulf and are
consequently out of TLAMs and Harpoons, but still have adequate SAMs and
some choppers.

To the S of Nimitz is the oiler Cimarron, escorted by the frigate
McClusky. These ships are meant to support the carrier on her way to the
Med. Also nearby is the SSN Columbus.

To the N in Oman, NATO has some F-15s, F-16s, tankers and other support
aircraft. There are also a couple of B-1 Lancers with inappropriate
short-range, low-altitude munitions and a large squadron of bomb-armed
Omani Jaguars.

At Djibouti, perilously close to the Bab-al-Mandeb, the French destroyer
Jean de Vienne is guarding eight minesweepers with a tender and some
remotely-operated vehicles. The French base is protected by a squadron
of Mirages and some SAMs and also has a selection of ASW Breguets and
choppers.

Finally, the British have the frigate Lancaster on ASW duty in the Red
Sea and some US Eagles, Falcons and tankers will be available after
about a day for one strike mission before being returned to duty in the
Med.

Ranged against this, the Soviets have based some Fencers, Fulcrums and
Floggers at Socotra and more at Sana’a in Yemen. The former base has
some decent SAMs, including a Grumble site, but the latter relies on
Yemeni-crewed Guidelines and Goas. A number of Osa PCFGs are known to be
based at Socotra’s port of Mori. Several Soviet subs are at sea, precise
whereabouts unknown.

Yemen has a sizeable air force, consisting in the main of MiG-21s,
Tigers and Fitter strike planes, spread across a number of bases, which
are warded by more Guidelines and Goas. They also have a swarm of small
naval craft in position to block the straits, which are heavily mined.
Along the Arabian shore, there are numerous Styx and 152mm artillery
batteries, SAMs and AA guns, making a transit a highly-dangerous
business.

Further NW, Ethiopia fields a couple of squadrons of Tiger and Flogger H
attack planes, plus more Fishbeds. They have shelved their differences
with the Eritreans, who contribute a squadron of captured MiG-21s.

Last line of defence for the Pact is Sudan, which has more Fishbed and
Flogger H units and maybe some light naval craft. Ethiopia, Eritrea and
Sudan also have their share of handed-down SA-2 and SA-3 systems at
their bases.

15/2/94 01:00Z (04:00L): The briefing suggests that you waste no time
and get straight to business, so I made immediate plans to strike at
Socotra while seeking to link the Nimitz and Gettysburg groups and place
Cimarron in their wake. The considerable distance to the escape zone in
the Southern Red Sea (N of Dahlak Island) enforced a rapid speed of 25
knots for the first two groups, with Cimarron moving as best she could
at 18.

I unleashed a TLAM barrage at Socotra’s airbase and Mori, supported by
Omani-based Strike Eagles with Paveways and HARM-toting F-16s. Some
Tomcats from Nimitz flew escort and duelled with Fulcrums and Floggers
over the island. As I’d feared, the once-mighty Phoenix is now a very
tricky weapon to use and tends to overshoot the target or lose lock, so
the only casualty here was a Fencer F (3VP for Soviet planes, one for
all other enemy). Nevertheless, the onslaught overwhelmed the Russian
defences, closed the runway (5VP), wrecked a pier (sinking four Osas for
1VP each) and wrote-off most of the SAMs and radars. I was actually
given 15VP for the runway instead of 5 due to the multiple awards bug
seen in other scenarios. Then again, 5 wasn’t very generous, given the
importance of the target.

02:00Z: A follow-up wave of 6 TLAMs finished off the naval base and
accounted for no less than 20 more Osas. They could reflect on the old
adage that ‘dulce et decorum est pro patria mori’! I was pretty glad
that this lot never got to sea and that the resident Fencers would stay
grounded. Socotra was neutralised.

03:00Z: Given the fate of the Osas and my experiences in Mozambique
Madness, I deemed it wise to launch all of the minesweepers at Djibouti
to prevent them being lost if the pier was destroyed.

07:00Z: After a lull, USS Columbus launched a TLAM strike and closed the
runway at the Easternmost Yemeni base at Ataq, grounding some Fitters
and Fishbeds for the duration. Again, I was given 10VP instead of 5.

08:00Z: The enemy mounted a heavy strike on Djibouti, initially with
swarms of Yemeni Fitters and Tigers from Aden and both Yemeni and
Ethiopian MiG-21s. The French had eight Mirages and some SAMs to oppose
them. Two Mirages were lost, but this phase was essentially a turkey
shoot, with 12 Fitters, 16 Tigers and 15 Fishbeds knocked out of the
sky. French Magic and Super missiles have become more useful now that
air combat is a closer-ranged affair and they tend to be more reliable
than more ‘advanced’ American weapons. However, the Yemeni and Ethiopian
aircraft were just (unnecessarily) running interference for a stand-off
strike by Fencers from Sana’a, escorted by Fulcrums and Floggers. Kazoo
missiles sank the Jean de Vienne for a severe 50VP (ten times the
Socotra runway for a second-line destroyer), the two minesweepers (5VP
each) and tender (nil) that had been at sea at the start and also
battered the empty harbour facilities, destroying one pier and severely
damaging the others. Not much I could have done to prevent this, but the
minesweepers I’d launched in-play were off the AI’s radar and were not
attacked.

This is another scenario which uses the Downed Pilot script. In this
case, I had two Frenchmen to rescue close to Djibouti at the end of the
strike, so I sent-out my sole Alouette SAR chopper. Perhaps because this
is one of Bart’s earliest scenarios, the script just doesn’t work and it
proved impossible to pick-up the pilots. On the other hand, the bug also
meant that I lost no points for the planes and, since (with my usual
luck) every single aircraft I lost in the game generated a Downed Pilot,
I lost no points at all.

10:00Z: I was informed that the Lancers at Thumrait, Oman, were due to
be recalled to the States for nuclear deterrence duty, so I had to use
them or lose them. As they had 1nm-ranged bombs that had to be dropped
from 2,000’ or less, using them would have been suicide, so I was happy
to release them.

Columbus continued the Day of the TLAM, taking advantage of the enemy
planes abandoning CAP to support the Djibouti strike to close the runway
(10VP awarded, should have been 5).

12:00Z: Top priority now was to deal with the piers at the four Yemeni
bases around the straits to prevent swarms of small craft contesting our
passage later. For proof of concept, I fired an initial pair at the
three piers at Murad, wrecking two and destroying 5 dhows (2VP each) and
10 other craft (one each).

Some Yemeni MiGs chose that moment to raid Djibouti. It did them no good
and cost them three planes to CAP and SAMs.

14:00Z: A follow-up TLAM strike destroyed all of the remaining piers,
eliminating 11 dhows and 66 other craft for a nice haul of points. At
+183, it was still a Minor Defeat.

15:00Z: By now, I could risk having a Sentry from Oman close enough to
monitor activity at all Yemeni bases. In this way, I learned that there
were still Soviet aircraft operating from Sana’a. Looking more closely
at the photo recon, I realised that the base had a runway-grade taxiway
as well as a runway!.

17:00Z: I launched 10 more TLAMs at the taxiway. To distract the
defenders, a Mirage took-off from Djibouti, engaged and destroyed a
Yemeni Tiger and two MiG-21s. This drew the Fulcrums away from Sana’a.
As the TLAMs closed, two more Mirages engaged. The first made a mess of
tackling two Fishbeds, downing one but taking damage. His wingman
disposed of the other MiG and a Tiger before both got clear. Despite all
this effort, two Russian fighters were still in the right place to shoot
down the lead pair of TLAMs. Thankfully, they then went RTB and the
other eight missiles duly closed the taxiway (10VP awarded), also
catching two Fulcrums and a Flogger taking-off or landing. This made the
score Average at +205. We were down to one TLAM, but it had to be done
to ground the Fencers and other Russian aircraft.

By now, Nimitz and Gettysburg had rendezvoused and were N of Socotra,
heading W at 25 knots.

18:00Z: With the French now taking a more aggressive posture, a Mirage
downed two more Yemeni MiG-21s. A recon Mirage scouted the straits and
located three batteries of 152mm guns and a half-dozen Styx sites, plus
multiple batteries of AA guns. Two more Fishbeds arrived and were
dealt-with by the escort.

21:00Z: After a long series of combats near the straits, the French bled
the Yemeni Fishbed CAP from Aden to death. The Soviets also lost a
Fulcrum, which had to ditch.

22:00Z: The Lancers left Thumrait. Meanwhile, the strike planes from
Cairo were now available for their one-off mission. The best bet seemed
to be to target a string of four Square Tie surface search radars which
spanned the Red Sea at the latitude of Dahlak Island, while also
attacking the facilities on the latter. To do this, we had 4 Eagles
escorting 4 attack F-15s, 2 F-16s with Mavericks, 4 more with HARMs and
four supporting tankers. Shepherding this lot down the 1,100nm of the
Red Sea while keeping out of sight of enemy radar needed attention.

23:00Z: While doing this, I had two false sub contacts to deal-with.
One, near HMS Lancaster, was one of those infuriating False Contacts
that can’t be resolved with the available technology. In the end, I left
it in the hands of a nearby Saudi (AI-controlled) frigate and cleared
the area.

I also attacked the Bab-al-Mandeb defences with two Gazelle choppers
from Djibouti. These destroyed a battery of 152mm guns with their HOT
anti-tank missiles, but one was jaw-droppingly downed by an SA-2f
Guideline while flying at 200’ ASL, which was surely impossible...

16/2/94 01:00Z: The strike from Cairo went in. It turned-out that the
Square Ties did not have any associated Styx batteries (just a unit of
152mm guns). All the radars were destroyed (no VP) but the artillery had
a charmed life with malfunctioning missiles and escaped with a mauling.
Numerous MiG-21s of uncertain nationality scrambled from the Dahlak base
and managed to take advantage of the chaotic situation to down an F-16
and damage two F-15s. The Dahlak runway was closed (5VP) and 11 enemy
aircraft (6 Farmers, 3 MiG-21s and 2 Colts) were destroyed on the ground
and in the air. AMRAAMs were hopeless, repeatedly overflying their
targets due to lofting and I had issues with aircraft trying to
break-off to refuel as they commenced their attack runs, despite taking
care to fuel them from the tankers before sending them in. All I could
do was suspend permission to refuel until the attacks were complete. The
lost F-16 apart, all other aircraft got safely back to Egypt.

02:00Z: Twelve Yemeni Fitters launched from Aden and went for the task
force. In short, CAP downed 11 and the escapee was intercepted and
terminated by a Mirage. This masks a chaotic affray in which Phoenixes
were again a waste of space, most kills being made at close quarters
with Sparrows and Sidewinders. Infuriatingly, Tomcats told to Auto
Engage Fitters would, contrary to instructions, soar to 36,000’ at the
AI’s whim when the enemy were skimming the wavetops – there are so many
hidden settings in the game these days that it can be a nightmare for
the player.

04:00Z: Thumrait mounted a tanker-supported strike against the
Bab-al-Mandeb defences, with the French supplying recon and an abortive
Mirage strike sortie (double malfunction). One F-16 was lost because the
AI had it RTB over the SAMs at Aden while I wasn’t looking (this was to
prove a constant hazard and I wonder whether it was a deliberate design
feature). An F-15 was knocked-down by a Guideline. However, all radars
and SAMs at the straits were neutralised with HARMs, while the Eagles’
Paveways wrought havoc and destroyed all of the Styx batteries. One
artillery battery was crippled but, along with its companion, it still
needed to be eliminated before the waiting minesweepers could close-in.

05:00Z: A four-plane strike from Nimitz finished the damaged 152mm
battery and cluster-bombed some AA guns, but the second battery was
saved by a malfunctioning CBU-59. A Hornet was hit by AA, lost comms and
inevitably and mindlessly flew over Aden, inviting SAMs until its luck
ran out.

06:00Z: A Gazelle finished-off the artillery and two Hornets then
cluster-bombed the remaining AA on Mayyun island to make life safer for
ASW planes and minesweeping choppers.

I then sent-in the minesweepers and a Sea Dragon chopper. Immediately,
everything headed for the Gulf of Guinea as a bug reared its head.
Investigation showed that the minesweeping mission’s reference points
had been wiped for some reason. Reinstating them in the editor
temporarily resolved the issue, but it kept recurring at intervals. This
made minesweeping a trial, especially as units move around randomly
instead of targeting known mines in an organised fashion. Manually
steering them does no good, as the AI just overrules you. I also lost
the Sea Dragon (easily the most effective asset due to its mobility) to
a mine detonation and had to send-in a replacement. The ROVs launched
from the German minesweeper Passau were a complete waste of space.
Nonetheless, mines were gradually found and removed.

08:00Z: The Yemenis mounted a strike from their remaining viable base at
Hodeida (NW of the straits), with a dozen Fitters escorted by the same
number of Fishbeds. Instead of going for the task force, they prudently
went after the minesweepers. With Nimitz still too far away to mount a
permanent CAP, the French were left to hold the fort until the Tomcats
could arrive. Two Mirages were lost for 6 Fitters and 6 Fishbeds (some
downed by the US carrier fighters at the end) and the minesweeper
Lobelia was bombed and sunk. The Sea Dragon had some anxious moments
before getting clear. Overall, it could have been worse, though Hodeida
was stil capable of another strike.

09:00Z: A lone Sudanese patrol boat approached the NW end of the straits
and was bombed and sunk by an F-18.

12:00Z: After much tedious, frustrating minesweeping, the mission
reference points bug began recurring every few seconds. No sooner had I
reset the reference points and re-assigned units to the mission then the
problem would repeat itself. I might have been able to get the task
force through, following a course blazed by the minesweeper Milazzo, but
I couldn’t count on it. Without being able to execute minesweeping
reliably, it was an unacceptable risk. I didn’t need the hassle and
quit.

I was on +263 (Average) and would probably have won if I’d avoided being
crippled by the minefield. The enemy were down to maybe three squadrons
of Ethiopian and Sudanese strike planes, the remaining Fitters at
Hodeida and probably some subs. I hadn’t used a single SAM from the task
force and had plenty of CAP and ASW planes available, with enough time
to get past the Dahlak Island region to the escape zone. I still have
the save file and might finish it anyway, but this seemed a good time to
post the AAR.

Overall, it is a good scenario in many ways, despite the lengthy
interludes imposed by the distances involved, but it is buggy and the
minesweeping issues spoiled it for me.

Once I’d gotten over my irritation with the minesweeping issues, I
finished the scenario. Did the best I could running minesweeping
manually, then accepted the risk to the task force.

13:00Z: Thumrait mounted an attack on Socotra. Using Paveways meant
getting into SAM range and this cost me two F-15s, but two Guidelines
and a Goa were disabled and 18 Soviet aircraft destroyed on the ground.

14:00Z: A Mirage intercepted and downed a Badger recon plane over
Ethiopia.

15:00Z: A few planes flew from Nimitz to reduce two Eritrean Goa sites
at Assab, which had the potential to cramp our exit from the straits. A
pair of F-18s with AGM-84s only damaged the SAMs from a safe distance
and they would not illuminate for a waiting HARM plane. I felt forced to
send-in an F-18 with CBU-59s. This successfully approached and hit both
sites, but lucklessly failed to destroy either fire control radar and
was shot down on a 26% chance on the way out. At least this allowed the
HARM plane to pounce and finish the job. Meanwhile, another Badger was
destroyed over Ethiopia.

17:00Z: A third Badger went the way of the other two. The surviving
Mirage pilots were amassing quite a score, albeit against limited
opposition.

18:00Z: The task force entered the Bab-al-Mandeb. Despite every
precaution, including minesweepers running ahead of the high-value
units, three escorts struck undetected mines (Nimitz was at the back).
Groves and Leftwich sustained only minor damage, but John Paul Jones
suffered flooding and her speed dropped to 22 knots, trailing the CVN.
It took a while to bring things under control and she sustained 12%
damage overall.

19:00Z: Just as the fleet cleared the mined area, Hodeida launched a
strike and, pre-occupied with the mines, I only realised when the ships
started firing SAMs. Thankfully, the Fitters and Fishbeds went Engaged
Defensive in the face of the barrage, or they might have been able to
close to bombing range. As it was, they had some extraordinary luck,
with strings of misses by SAMs on 60-70% odds, but were eventually
wiped-out at considerable expenditure of ordnance.

Twelve Ethiopian Tigers then approached from their base at Mekele. This
time, I was ready and CAP, helped by the Mirages, intercepted them
before they got anywhere near the task force, the result being a
one-sided turkey shoot. We even managed to get some Phoenixes on target.
At +350, the score was still Average.

20:00Z: Things took a serious turn for the worse when a Kilo succeeded
in ambushing and sinking the Leahy-class cruiser Worden. This cost 100VP
and even the destruction of the enemy sub by ASROC for 20 was little
consolation. Perhaps I should have slowed-down going through the
straits, but I’d had French Breguets combing the area ever since the
Yemeni SAMs had been neutralised and the task force had mounted an ASW
surge for good measure (we found a lot of biological and false
contacts). As with the mines, our efforts proved insufficient.

17/2/94 01:00Z: Despite annoying issues caused by shoals in the Red Sea,
a change of formation from column to wedge and the erratic Pathfinder
software, the task force made good progress into deeper water with no
further sign of the enemy, beyond a fourth and last Badger that was
picked-off by a Tomcat.

07:00Z: Nimitz reached the Objective Area for 200VP. There was no award
for Gettysburg doing the same. A score of +473 was still only Average.

08:00Z: Two Hornets hit Dahlak Island with AGM-84s and destroyed five
aircraft on the ground.

Two more AGM-84 planes and a HARM F-18 struck Sana’a, hitting two
Fencers, smashing two radars and damaging a Gainful site.

Cimarron and McClusky, escorted by Columbus, reached the approaches to
the straits, but they were not going to be able to reach the Objective
Area in time, so I left them there rather than risk more mine incidents.

09:00Z: Three Strike Eagles from Thumrait paid another visit to Socotra.
They began by finishing-off a Grizzly site that had caused problems last
time despite having no fire control radar (this took three shots with
Paveways due to malfunctions). With the danger removed, the other two
F-15s could relax and a dozen missiles took-out 28 more enemy aircraft,
moving the score on to +500 and a Minor Victory. I was, however, aware
that I’d lost 13 aircraft for maybe 65VP that I’d not been fined due to
the Downed Pilot bug (I would have rescued at least two pilots). I’d
also been given 25VP too many for closing runways so, in truth, I still
needed another 80-90 points to win.

The escorting HARM F-16 went to scout the Yemeni base at Al-Ghaydah,
near the Omani border and was startled to encounter a Fencer E that had
re-based there. An AMRAAM was spoofed on a 12% chance, another missed on
85% and I had to make the kill with a Sidewinder.

10:00Z: An F-18 finished-off the damaged 152mm battery on Dahlak Island
with bombs, not that it scored any points.

11:00Z: Omani Jaguars destroyed a Flogger that had re-based to
Al-Ghaydah on the ground and also wrecked the nearby radar site.

An F-18 eliminated two Sudanese Square Tie coast defence radars and
covered our last TLAM as it destroyed a hangar at Port Sudan,
rubbing-out six Flogger H attack planes. The HARM plane then detected a
radar inland and, stretching its fuel, disposed of that as well.

14:00Z: Not without a lot of frustration, two Tomcat sorties penetrated
deep into Sudanese airspace and clobbered a pair of MiG-21s patrolling
over the Nile Valley.

15:00Z: A four-plane AGM-84 strike wreaked havoc at Port Sudan,
writing-off 20 parked MiG-21s and taking the score to +600. Tomcats
picked-off two more over the Nile.

16:00Z: A lone F-15 with our last Paveways made another visit to Socotra
and wrote-off another 18 enemy aircraft. I was glad I’d prevented that
lot from getting airborne early-on!

17:00Z: Shot down two more Sudanese Fishbeds to take the score to +650
and a theoretical Major Victory before winding-down the clock. Deducting
the points I shouldn’t have had, the final total was really about +560
and a Minor Victory. While just about all of the stated scenario
objectives had been achieved, the loss of the Worden and Jean de Vienne
was deemed to have detracted from this.

NATO lost a cruiser, second-line destroyer, 3 minesweepers, a tender, 5
ROVs, 4 fighters, 7 atatck planes and two choppers, plus four ground
elements.

The Warsaw Pact and allies lost 24 PCFGs, an SSK, 93 smaller craft, 190
fighters, 90 attack planes, 17 support aircraft, 16 Styx, 24 artillery,
39 SAM, 15 radar and 43 other ground elements. We swept 38 mines and
detonated 14, some of the latter deliberately, as it was the only way
the minesweepers could manage it.

The next scenario in the series, Gate of Tears, looks like another
marathon, but there are Chains of War and NFZ matters to tackle first.
