**Indian Ocean Fury \#2 – Mozambique Madness**

**<u>AAR by fitzpatv, Feb 2023</u>**

In the unlikely event that anyone has missed me, apologies for the delay
since my last AAR. Though I’ve suspended my Chains of War series, I’ve
still been playing the scenarios and Okinawa Bound is a massive one that
takes time. I may yet post the outstanding AARs once I’ve finished that
series. Another lengthy (4.5 day) scenario is Mozambique Madness, which
I’ve just completed. Here’s how it went…

As WW3 breaks-out, the British Ark Royal CVBG is scattered across the
Western Indian Ocean and lacking in clear direction. They are tasked
with various training and refuelling exercises in concert with Kenyan,
US, French and Spanish units.

Ark Royal is a small carrier with a limited air group, desperately short
of ammo. She is sailing through the Mozambique Channel, escorted by the
DDG York and the FFG Brave. On the positive side, the TG has decent SAM
cover from the latest model of the Sea Dart and adequate ASW capability.
On the other hand, the available fighters barely have any reloads and, a
couple of Sea Eagle missiles apart, strikes will have to be with bombs
and rockets.

The DDG Cardiff is NE of Madagascar, handicapped by having no ASW
chopper and only basic SAM defence. She needs to rendezvous with Ark
Royal more for her own protection than the carrier’s.

Off the Horn of Africa way to the N, the FFG Scylla is escorting the
oiler Fort Victoria, intending to join-up with Ark Royal when
practically possible. Also associated with the Ark is the SSN Trenchant,
about halfway between the carrier and the Fort Victoria group.

The French have a few ships assigned to protect their colony of Mayotte
at the N end of the Mozambique Channel and the nearby, allied Comoros
Islands. North of Madagascar, the FFG Floreal has a couple of Exocets
and some guns, but has no real air or submarine defence. To her E is the
naval freighter Jules Verne, theoretically on her way to Djibouti,
another French ally. There are also some patrol boats at Mayotte, but
they won’t be ready for some time and won’t be much use when they are.

France also has the small helicopter carrier Jeanne d’Arc, escorted by
the weak corvette Amyot d-Imville, 568nm SE of Somalia and the oiler Var
off the Horn of Africa. They intend to rendezvous, then head for
Djibouti. Jeanne d’Arc has mostly transport choppers, but a couple can
use HOT anti-tank missiles.

A Spanish FFG, the Cazadora, is on anti-piracy patrol off the Somali
coast, assisted at a distance by the US FFG Gary and the LST Cayuga.
These ships are quite well-armed, but divided and, Gary apart, not the
swiftest. Gary has a couple of choppers with recon and anti-surface
loadouts.

Some 700nm WNW of Diego Garcia, the American helicopter carrier Peleliu
is heading for Somalia to make a ‘show of strength’, escorted by the
Belknap-class CG Biddle and the Spruance-class DD Fletcher and also
accompanied by the amphibious ships Cleveland and Mount Vernon. Most of
the aircraft carried are transport choppers, but Peleliu has six
Harriers and some helicopter gunships. Trailing behind her is the LST
Barbour County, intended to relieve the Cayuga. The SSN Gurnard is
cruising helpfully close to the Fort Victoria group.

At Diego Garcia, there are two more American SSNs and a number of
auxiliaries, but they won’t be ready for a while. The base also has five
Orions (with limited supplies of ASW weapons), some Stratotankers and a
Hercules transport.

The Kenyan Navy has a weak patrol boat, inappropriately named Mamba, at
sea and another ten craft of various sizes in port at Mombasa but not
yet ready. The latter include five decent Nyayo and Madaraka-class PCFGs
with Otomat and Gabriel anti-shipping missiles.

Kenya’s air force is based at Laikipia base near Nairobi and consists of
Tiger II fighters with rear-aspect Sidewinders and Hawk trainers with
short-range rocket-strike capability. Laikipia also hosts a couple of
British Nimrods and a Hercules tanker.

As for the enemy, the Soviets are known to have an old Kresta-class
cruiser and Kanin DDG at Dar-es-Salaam in Tanzania, which is sympathetic
to their cause. Several submarines are lurking around the Western Indian
Ocean, including a Charlie with medium-ranged but powerful Starbright
missiles. There are also some AGIs and an oiler.

Mozambique is pro-Soviet, going back to her war of independence from
Portugal. She has just one weak patrol boat, but a force of MiG-21s and
Italian-made Gina light bombers.

Across the Channel is Madagascar, which has designs on Mayotte and the
Comoros, some patrol boats and amphibious craft with which to back these
up and numerous MiG-21s and MiG-19s.

Further North, both Tanzania and Uganda support the Warsaw Pact and see
the war as a chance to put one over on Kenya. Both have MiG-21s,
Tanzania has MiG-19s and the latter also has some patrol craft and
torpedo boats with Seeaals.

Finally, the Somali pirates have been persuaded to co-ordinate their
efforts by the Soviets and have a great number of fishing boats and
RHIBs armed with RPGs and light automatic weapons.

Neither side has any strong air-to-air weapons. Ark Royal’s Harriers
have a very limited supply of AMRAAMs, but they are only good at 5nm or
less and need to be conserved. Otherwise, both sides have to rely on
Sidewinders, Aphids, PL-2s (all 2nm or so under ‘Tiny’) and cannon,
which promises some close-ranged aerial duels. Deciding when and how to
attack will be crucial.

Note that I was unable to specify firing ranges for all of Peleliu TG’s
SAMs, because the game can’t handle this for three weapon types (it
presumably finds the arrays too large). If you try to do this, you will
probably crash the game, as I did, resulting in having to re-do a lot of
set-up work.

13/2/94 13:00Z (app 16:00L) : I decided that Ark Royal’s first priority
was to forestall any Madagascan move to invade the Comoros and Mayotte,
so I steered her towards these islands. It seemed best not to waste
sorties on CAP and adopt a pop-up approach, using AEW Sea Kings to spot
incoming planes while other choppers performed ASW patrols. Floreal and
Cardiff were put on rendezvous courses, while Jules Verne was packed-off
to Diego Garcia. Trenchant was told to stay put until the situation
clarified.

Jeanne d’Arc maintained her initial course and Var moved to link-up with
her. Gurnard was assigned to cover Fort Victoria.

Off Somalia, the slow Cayuga was in a very exposed position and tried to
steer around the many pirate vessels in her vicinity. Gary and Cazadora
aimed to link-up with her, the former moving slowly to optimise her
sonar.

For Kenya, the feeble Mamba was instructed to return to Mombasa and the
useful Nyayo launched to protect her, trusting that her Otomats would be
too much for Tanzanian torpedo boats. The Kenyan air force adopted a
reactive posture and an RAF recon Nimrod lifted-off from Laikipia to
assist the Gary group.

At least eight Mozambican aircraft launched from Nacala in the N of that
country. I recalled my ASW choppers and resisted the temptation to
launch any Harriers, watching in resignation as the Ginas bombed a
neutral merchant ship. As Madagascan planes headed NW towards the
merchant shipping, an intelligence report suggested that they probably
didn’t know Ark Royal was around, believing that she was headed into the
Atlantic from Cape Town.

The Nimrod spotted Tanzanian warships off the NE coast of Kenya – a long
way from where they should have been.

As the Mozambican and Madagascan attacks continued, a 75,000-ton
freighter was sunk, costing us 25VP. Trying to intercept would probably
have used-up all of our AMRAAMs and might not have downed that many
attackers anyway. A half-dozen Madagascan Frescoes overflew Ark Royal
above the cloud layer, probably not seeing us as I told my Sea Cat
operators to hold their fire.

14:00 : The Comoros government, facing anti-NATO/French unrest,
requested assistance and opened its airports for our use, not that they
had any useful stores. Anxious to reach Mayotte before any amphibious
force, I increased the Ark’s speed to 24 knots. Meanwhile, Peleliu
offered her Harriers, which would be of more use in the Comoros than in
mid-ocean. I accepted the four Sidewinder-armed fighters, leaving the
two planes with bombs on Peleliu. A KC-135 from Diego Garcia and the
Hercules at Laikipia were detailed to support the ferry mission, the
Herc being re-based to Ouani in the Comoros. I was told that the other
Hercules, at Diego Garcia, could deliver ammo, though the mechanism for
this was unclear, as the base had only ASW stores. In any case, the US
Herc would not be ready for four hours yet.

It was confirmed that the Soviets were inciting Somali pirate attacks
and we were cleared to retaliate. It seemed a good idea to save ammo and
fire short bursts of five rounds to disable the small vessels, rather
than trying to sink them. A motionless pirate would be less able to
attack anything. We were told not to attack Somalia itself to avoid
harming innocent civilians.

15:00: Gary’s recon Seahawk identified a Somali rig/platform hosting 14
small craft, so I launched her Penguin-armed attack chopper. This closed
and wrecked the flimsy platform, rather ridiculously destroying no less
than 34 hosted fishing boats, dhows and RHIBs for 1VP each with one
missile…

Three vessels ahead of Ark Royal and approaching Mayotte were identified
as neutral by a French SAR chopper, so we could relax in the knowledge
that we had enough time to head-off any Madagascan invasion.

16:00: At dusk, local time, the Ugandans made their move, sending 24
Mig-21s to bomb Laikipia. Six Kenyan Tigers scrambled on a CAP mission
and did well to destroy 13 attackers for one loss. The Tigers could
out-turn the Fishbeds and the latter were handicapped by their bombing
mission. Enemy planes score a point each and losses cost three, plus the
baleful effects of the god-forsaken Downed Pilot script, which generally
increases this to five. Our plane was shot down deep inside Kenyan
territory, but we had no local SAR planes and, presumably, there were
man-eating lions behind every bush…

Aerial recon detected the Iranian tanker Bandar Abbas, providing support
to the Somalis. Gary duly picked her off with two Harpoons. This
generated an Event, but a bug meant that it scored no VP.

17:00: The Mozambican patrol boat Pebane was bearing down on HMS Brave,
leading Ark Royal, no doubt hoping to exploit her lack of gun armament.
A Harrier lifted-off and crippled her with rockets before chasing a
supporting Cessna Caravan recon plane. Ark Royal identified the Cessna
at the wrong moment and arguably wasted a Sea Dart shooting it down. A
second Harrier finished-off the Pebane and, since it was able to,
disposed of a nearby Madagascan Skadovsk patrol craft for good measure.

Meanwhile, the Nyayo engaged the Tanzanian Navy and sank one of the
Manta torpedo boats with two Otomats (one malfunctioned). By now, the
Mamba was back in Mombasa – a mistake, as it turned-out…

18:00: Somali tactics were to swarm any target they detected with
everything they had. Subjected to this, Gary tried to conserve ammo, but
needed 25 rounds to sink the nearest motorised dhow. Reassuringly, she
could outrun anything she couldn’t outfight.

Ark Royal decided to deal with any Mozambican or Madagascan recon planes
to reduce the risk of attack and put down a second Cessna with a Sea
Dart.

The commander of the US Nimitz CVBG notified us of his intention to
neutralise the Soviet base at Socotra, at the entrance to the Red Sea.
He asked us to move Ark Royal, Peleliu and Jeanne d’Arc to a marked
Assembly Area Sierra, E of the Horn of Africa, by the end of the game
and also to deal with the Soviet SAG. His communication was then severed
for no reason we were able to diagnose and we heard nothing more from
him all game. Worrying.

Our Hercules tanker arrived at Ouani, followed during the next hour by
the four US Harriers and a Nimrod from Kenya.

19:00: An Orion spotted a second Manta for Nyayo, which did the honours.
Tanzania had no more of these potentially troublesome torpedo craft.

Another Orion (I do love them), found a Russian Okhtenskiy auxiliary tug
near an island in mid-ocean. As the KC-135 was still on-station, I used
it to support Peleliu’s two bomb-armed Harriers, which sank the Soviet
for 5VP. What it was doing there, I don’t know.

20:00: As the night wore-on, our Orions located the Soviet SAG some
350nm E of Dar-es-Salaam. It was heading straight for Trenchant, which
moved to intercept.

The Madagascan Audacieuse-class patrol-boat Chamois started attacking
neutral shipping SE of Mayotte, so two Harriers sank her with bombs. One
also disposed of a Madagascan Turbine Islander patrol plane with a
Sidewinder.

21:00: By now, the Kenyan PCFG Madaraka was at sea and, despite issues
with her Israeli Gabriel missiles (they need active radar for guidance),
sank two Tanzanian Shanghai patrol boats. That was the end of the
Tanzanian Navy, such as it was. Nyayo and Madaraka headed NE to help
against the pirates and get out of range of Tanzanian aircraft while
night lasted.

It seemed a good idea for Gary and Cazadora to use some of their SAMs in
anti-surface mode against Somali pirates, but this proved difficult at
night as they couldn’t illuminate the targets.

22:00: Given no likelihood of better targets, Gary’s chopper sank a
Somali armed fishing boat with a Penguin.

14/2/94 00:00: Five Madagascan Skadovsks were detected E of Mayotte,
possibly screening an invasion force. A Harrier sank one and crippled
another with rockets. Floreal arrived on the scene and engaged three,
sinking one with an Exocet and leaving the others dead in the water with
gunfire before moving to join Ark Royal.

Meanwhile, the Hercules from Diego Garcia reached Ouani and, after a
realistic time delay, delivered 24 Sidewinders and 44 bombs (this works
without needing to load anything, though I did give the plane a Cargo
loadout). It scored no VP. After readying, the plane was sent back to
Diego Garcia.

02:00: Some Madagascan Fishbeds sortied at night and took cheap shots at
some merchant ships without sinking any. The US Harriers scrambled and
destroyed three MiGs and a Turbine Islander.

A couple of merchant ships blundered into the Somali pirate-infested
zone and were attacked. Gary, Cazadora and Cayuga (the latter having
wormed her way out of her exposed position) tried to intervene, but
distance and sheer numbers of hostiles made this difficult. At least the
enemy lacked the firepower to sink ships easily.

04:00: Trenchant intercepted the Soviet cruiser Sevastopol and destroyer
Opornyy, supported by one of the Ouani Harriers (and the Hercules
tanker) in case an ASW chopper was about. As it happened, none was and,
with their lousy sonar, the Russians pressed-on into no-escape
territory. The British SSN put two Spearfish into each and sank them
both for 35VP total. One major threat removed.

At that precise moment, the wretched Ugandans decided to attack Laikipia
again. CAP belatedly scrambled and downed 7 Fishbeds without loss.

Ark Royal’s Harriers sank the remaining Skadovsks with bombs and
rockets.

06:00: Gary and friends eliminated a number of pirate vessels, clearing
the way for one of the errant merchant ships, but the other had been
immobilised and was surrounded by the swarm.

Cardiff detected a possible sub off the N tip of Madagascar. With no
chopper, she took no chances and fled at Flank, revising her rendezvous
with Ark Royal for a more Northerly location. Meanwhile, Trenchant was
hurrying South to screen Mayotte against a delayed invasion and allow
Ark Royal to move N towards Assembly Area Sierra.

07:00: With daylight, I tried using a Hawk from Laikipia to thin-out the
Somalis with rockets, but she simply lacked the range.

Suddenly and without warning, the Tanzanians struck Mombasa port and
wiped-out the Kenyan ships (nine of them) at anchor by destroying their
single dock, using just fourteen 250kg bombs to do so. This cost 90VP,
which was really painful given the difficulty in scoring. The smaller
Kenyan ships were not worth 10VP. It was maybe unrealistic to have all
the ships at the same dock (much as with the pirates at the rig/platform
earlier) as this made it too facile for the AI. I could have kept the
Mamba at sea and sent two weak patrol boats and a lumbering landing
craft out to join her, but they might not have been that much safer
there. The other five ships, including an Nyayo and two Madarakas, were
not ready at the time. Not sure what else I could have done. Mombasa has
no airfield, radar, SAMs or even AA (unlike the Ugandan and Tanzanian
bases). I could have mounted a CAP from Laikipia, but only at the
expense of that base’s defence and the Tigers could not have stayed on
station for more than an hour or two at a time. Chances are that I would
not have been able to protect either asset effectively with that
approach. Take the hit and soldier on...

09:00: A Sea King investigated the Cardiff sub contact, which turned-out
to be fish.

Gary and Cazadora attacked the swarm around the crippled merchant ship.
Some of the pirates were evidently out of ammo, so I concentrated on
those that were moving in to attack. Using Sea Sparrows from Cazadora
proved reasonably effective, but Gary’s RIM-66s were way too inaccurate
and I soon desisted here. It was remarkable how much damage the Somali
boats could take. One RHIB was struck three times by 76mm shells and
still took time to slow and sink, while others survived two such hits.
It was quite a contrast with the ease which which they could stop a
3,000DP merchantman. Something isn’t right here. Disabling pirates
stopped them attacking, but scored no VP. Eventually, we ran out of ammo
that we could use while not being sucked into dangerously close range. I
concluded that the merchant ship was doomed (the numbers of pirates
seeming inexhaustible) and put the safety of my warships first. The Gary
TG withdrew and headed to rendezvous with Peleliu, Fort Victoria, Var,
Jeanne d’Arc, Barbour County and Gurnard to the SE of Assembly Area
Sierra. Ark Royal planned to join them there later.

11:00: An Orion from Diego Garcia reached the Assembly Area to look for
subs and promptly went Bingo. Clearly, I needed to get the patrol planes
to Laikipia and stage the missions from there. This took time.

Ark Royal had a few anxious moments with what turned-out to be another
false submarine contact. It didn’t help that her Sea Kings and Lynxes
had no passive sonobuoys, which made identification impossible and led
to the waste of a couple of torpedoes, which failed to lock-on. In the
end, a Nimrod arrived with the necessary gear and the contact was
revealed as a fish school. The Nimrod continued to Laikipia.

12:00: An Orion scouted Madagascar’s Andrakaka naval base and found a
single LCT, presumably the limit of their amphibious capability. A
Harrier flew across and destroyed it with a brace of Sea Eagles,
removing the invasion threat. Ark Royal was now free to move N,
picking-up Trenchant and Cardiff en route, though this would leave the
defence of shipping near Mayotte in the hands of four US Harriers.

14:00: Orions revealed that there were still dozens of Somali pirate
vessels in port at Mogadishu and elsewhere. There was no realistic
possibility of eliminating this scourge, especially as we had been told
not to attack the docks (Tomahawks from our subs could have done so).
There was also no way to prevent merchant ships mindlessly ploughing
through the danger area, as they were under AI control. Admittedly it
was early in the war and the situation was confused, but broadcasts
could have warned all shipping to avoid the area, ships’ masters could
have shown some common sense and NATO warships could have told nearby
shipping to alter course. None of this is possible and it makes it too
easy for the AI to score 25VP windfalls.

16:00: The Ugandans, not learning from bitter experience, sent their
last four Fishbeds to Laikipia. Three were downed, but they got lucky
(three cannon hits in four shots at 15-20% chances) and destroyed a
Tiger. Another downed pilot was fed to the man-eating lions.

19:00: With a clear death wish, the last Ugandan MiG returned,
coinciding with the arrival of an Orion ASW plane at Laikipia so that I
had to pull it away. The Fishbed was destroyed by CAP, ending the
Ugandan threat.

21:00: A new weather forecast predicted Sea State 4, which pirate RHIBs
can’t handle. I wasn’t surprised when this had no immediate effect,
though it might just have influenced later events.

22:00: Ark Royal finally met-up with Cardiff and continued N, screened
by Trenchant running ahead.

15/2/94 02:00: By now, Peleliu, Fort Victoria, Gurnard, Var and Barbour
County had all assembled SE of the Sierra zone. It was tempting to try
to use Peleliu’s choppers to wreak havoc on the pirates, but it was a
long way to go, so I resisted the urge. Keeping ships together optimised
ASW defence, which was what was needed.

04:00: Nyayo was still trying to protect merchant shipping off Somalia.
She had some success, though the need to conserve ammo meant she had to
desist once the enemy boat had been immobilised. I never killed a RHIB
with a single hit all game. Eventually, a 300,000-ton tanker steered
straight over a fishing boat we’d immobilised earlier. Needless to say,
the pirate’s weapons were still operational and it absurdly managed to
halve the massive vessel’s speed with them. Worse, an accompanying
tanker halved her speed to maintain station. Of course, the tanker could
have rammed the pirate in reality. Nyayo battered the fishing boat with
76mm shells, but repeated hits failed to sink it and I had to cease fire
while I still had 20 rounds left. What can you do?

05:00: The cargo ship mobbed by the Somalis earlier died of her wounds,
costing us another 25VP. Things looked dire.

09:00: Having destroyed several pirates, Nyayo was obliged to clear the
danger zone. With Mombasa out of action, she had to head for Mayotte by
a route well out of reach of Tanzanian planes. Madaraka moved to relieve
her, armed with a single 40mm gun.

13:00: One paltry RHIB managed to stop the undamaged tanker dead in the
water. The other continued at 5 knots.

A Tiger intercepted and downed a Tanzanian Cessna SE of Mombasa, then
had to withdraw for lack of fuel.

18:00: Long after the threat had seemed to pass, the Madagascan air
force returned and made a dusk attack on three immobilised merchant
ships SE of Mayotte. Their location made it awkward for CAP to launch
and get there in time, but no sinkings occurred and the US Harriers
disposed of a trailing Fishbed and a Cessna.

16/2/94 07:00: The Madagascans mounted another sneak attack and, again,
CAP was slow to react. Two MiGs were shot down in a long chase over
Madagascar, but they took a Harrier with them (a cannon shot hit the
engine). At least there was an SAR chopper at Mayotte and this rescued
the inevitable downed pilot and got the 3VP back.

13:00: By now, Jeanne d’Arc, Gary and Ark Royal had reached the
rendezvous SE of Sierra and the assembled armada headed into the
probable danger zone. Much searching with two Orions and a Nimrod had
found only biological contacts there.

16:00: After tremendous effort, the Nimrod finally found a sub in Zone
Sierra. It was an Akula and two torpedoes put paid to it for 25VP. At
+40, it was still a Major Defeat. Using ordnance meant that the Nimrod
could conduct no more ASW patrols and had to switch to pirate-monitoring
(partial loadouts are not supported), leaving us with two Orions, which
couldn’t be on-station all the time. It was, therefore, a matter of
managing the task force’s helicopters.

21:00: Ark Royal reached Zone Sierra, scoring 250VP and totally changing
the complexion of the game. I kept her in the bottom right corner of the
zone to avoid enemy sub detection as best I could.

23:00: Jeanne d’Arc joined Ark Royal for another 250VP. Suddenly, it was
a Major Victory!.

17/2/94 01:00: Peleliu reached Zone Sierra for another 250VP, taking me
dizzyingly into Triumph territory. It was now a matter of holding our
positions and playing out time. I could have withdrawn a bit, but deemed
this unsporting.

Nearing Diego Garcia, the Jules Verne stumbled on a Soviet Moma AGI. An
Orion launched to shadow her and the SSN Houston sortied to sink her,
doing so for 5VP.

Between 04:00 and 19:00, the Mozambicans sank three freighters off their
coast for -75VP total. Nothing we could do about that. Meanwhile,
Madaraka helped steer some merchantmen through the pirate-infested
waters, greatly helped by the Somalis withdrawing en masse to a set of
confined patrol zones around their ports. All RHIBs disappeared, which
just might have had to do with the Sea State and not just fuel, ammo and
the risk that Ark Royal or Peleliu might have been around by this stage.

So it finished as a Triumph with a score of +723.

NATO and allies lost 3 fighters, 3 PCFGs, 4 patrol boats, 2 landing
craft and 2 ground installations, as well as 5 neutral merchant ships.

The USSR lost an SSN, cruiser, destroyer, AGI, tug and a chopper.

Madagascar lost 7 patrol boats, an LCT, 8 MiGs and 3 patrol planes.

Mozambique lost a patrol boat, 2 patrol planes and a chopper (which
crash-landed).

Tanzania lost 2 torpedo boats, 2 patrol boats and a patrol plane.

Uganda lost 24 MiGs.

The pirates lost a tanker, a rig/platform and 63 assorted craft.

Overall, this scenario is a sustained effort, with spells of high
excitement interspersed with long periods when it pays to play on Turbo.
It looked hopeless and unbalanced until the windfalls at the end changed
everything. In a way, it determines its own outcome, given that the
player is likely to get Ark Royal, Peleliu and Jeanne d’Arc to the
assembly area and the AI is at least as likely to score the points it
did for the Mombasa raid and merchant ship sinkings. Staying focused on
the main task is vital and losing any of the three key ships could be
very serious. One risk might be getting hit by the Mozambican and
Madagascan air forces at the start (I think my restraint was wise).
Another is submarine attack, which is hard to gauge as I still have no
idea where the Charlie, Victor III and Tango were.

Next time, we’ll pay a visit to Socotra and find out what happened to
the Nimitz to interrupt her communication.

**Notes from update:**

Gave the Kenyan's some UH-1 to extract downed pilots from man eating
lions

Broke up the Mombasa port and spread the ships around a bit, added a bit
of ammo as well. Also fitted out the airport at Mombasa, there is no
ammo there but it will make a good base for MPA

Made the mechanics for the ammo resupply run clear.
