**USAF Tankers and Transports**

Some of the busiest aircraft in the USAF enable the force to maintain
its global reach, these types have a mix of regular, reserve and Air
Guard squadrons which are virtually interchangeable in their capability.
Most squadrons belong to AMC but there are some which are forward
deployed in PACAF, USAFE and other areas as required.

An important feature of all tankers is the refueling method: Probe or
Drogue? Probe type refueling has a fixed boom that an operator maneuvers
to mate up with the receiving aircraft, this method is primarily used by
the USAF. Drogue refueling is where the tanker trails a ‘basket’ and the
receiving aircraft flies a receiver probe into that basket, this method
is used by the USN and most NATO countries. By 1994 the USAF tanker
fleet could conduct either type of refueling but the KC-135 needed some
reconfiguration to do so and pilots called the drogue basket on a KC-135
the ‘Iron Maiden’ as it didn’t have much flexibility and could easily
break an aircrafts probe causing a scrubbed mission.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image1.jpg" style="width:5.95833in;height:3.35143in" />

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image2.jpg" style="width:6.375in;height:3.34688in" />

Probe refueling of an F-16

[**KC-10 Extender**](https://fas.org/nuke/guide/usa/bomber/kc-10.htm)

Based on the commercial DC-10 airliner this extremely successful Air to
Air refueling tanker proved its superiority during the Gulf War, so much
so that in Northern Fury an additional 15 were ordered, bringing the
fleet to 75 aircraft. In addition to carrying double the fuel storage as
the more numerous KC-135, the Extender can carry 75 passengers and
170,000 lbs of cargo as well. The versatility that results is that one
KC-10 can enable a squadron of fighter aircraft to deploy to Europe
along with key squadron personnel and equipment, ready for almost
immediate operation. This aircraft can nearly double the range of the
massive C-5B transport. A KC-10 can conduct both Probe and Drogue
fueling on the same mission and change methods in flight. The Extender
is operated by 12 Squadrons, all within AMC with a mix of regular and
reserve crews.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image3.jpg" style="width:6.6869in;height:4.52869in" />

[KC-135 Stratotanker](https://fas.org/nuke/guide/usa/bomber/kc-135r.htm)

The Stratotanker first flew for the USAF in 1956 and is based on the
Boeing 707 airliner design, it can carry fuel or passengers and cargo
but its primary job is fuel. Various upgrades have occurred over the 40
years of service with the latest model being the KC-135R which, because
of better engine performance and efficiencies uses about 25% less fuel
itself, allowing for more to be transferred to other aircraft. By 1994,
420 of the ‘R’ model were converted from older Boing 707s retired from
passenger service and 161 older KC-135As were upgraded to a similar
standard for the ANG and AF Reserve, designated the ‘E’ model. About 100
of the late production ‘A’ models remain in service as well. A specialty
version was able to carry JP-7, the fuel required for the SR-71 High
Altitude Reconnaissance aircraft, 56 KC-135Q or the more modern ‘T’
models are located around the globe, the standard KC-135s carry JP-8 the
standard jet fuel used by the USAF, USN and NATO. In total the 680
airframes operating in 1994 are employed by 70 squadrons around the
globe and flown by regular, ANG and Air Reserve crews to meet constant
operational demand. There were about 10 C-135 and seven C-137, which
were a pure cargo version of the 707, these were used as the bases for
modification to create specialty aircraft such as J-STARS.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image4.jpg" style="width:6.72859in;height:4.04837in" />

[**C-5
Galaxy**](http://www.military-today.com/aircraft/lockheed_c_5_galaxy.htm)

The C-5 is the largest aircraft in NATO’s inventory and it is only
slightly smaller than the Soviet An-124 Condor. The massive belly of the
C-5 can fit every piece of equipment in the US Army, even the bulky M60
AVLB (Armored Vehicle Launched Bridge). With a payload capacity of
291,000 lbs, this aircraft is in extremely high demand; it can carry two
M1A2 Abrams Main Battle Tanks, 10 USMC LAV-25s or 7 UH-1 helicopters. In
addition to cargo there is a passenger area that seats 73. Its
impressive range of almost 6,000 miles can be increased by mid-air
refueling. Original production of the C-5A was 77, followed by another
production run of 50 C-5Bs with improved engines, avionics and
reliability. By 1994, there had been seven crashes leaving a total of
120 airframes operated by 13 AMC/ANG/Air Reserve squadrons, all are
upgraded to the ‘B’ standard.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image5.jpg" style="width:6.28142in;height:4.19097in" />

[**C-141B Starlifter**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-141.htm)A
companion heavy lifter to the C-5, the more numerous Starlifters tended
to move larger amounts of less bulky equipment, personnel (200
passengers) and bulk cargo (with a pallet loading system), leaving the
large equipment to the Galaxys. The C-141 was also the first jet
aircraft used by US paratroopers, and holds the record (in 1994) for
largest parachute cargo drop of 70,195 lbs. The ‘B’ model was a
lengthened version of the original production aircraft because it was
found that the cargo space was too small to achieve the maximum cargo
weight – in other words the original tended to ‘bulk out’ before it
reached it carrying capacity. The lengthened ‘B’ model did the same but
to a much reduced extent, and once the entire fleet was upgraded it
effectively adding 90 aircraft worth of carrying capacity to the fleet.
The 270 aircraft are operated by 30 squadrons, half of them in the Air
Force Reserve.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image6.jpg" style="width:6.02201in;height:3.88542in" />

[**C-17 Globemaster
III**](http://www.military-today.com/aircraft/boeing_globemaster_III.htm)

Historically the C-17 had a controversial and difficult evolution, it
was caught up in the budget slashing days of the late ‘80’s and early
‘90s but has since become the mainstay of long distance heavy lift
transport throughout NATO. In Northern Fury the original plan to procure
210 aircraft was not changed and the budget slicing did not occur to the
same extent. As a result, the C-17 met its production timeline, the
original design of the wing was retained and therefore did not fail its
acceptance tests and by 1994 the 17<sup>th</sup> Airlift Squadron at
Charleston AFB has 12 operational Globemasters. The associated
317<sup>th</sup> Air Reserve Squadron also has 5 aircraft and is
conducting training and certification on these in early 1994. The C-17
fits a middle of the road niche within AMC, its cargo capacity for
weight falls between the C-5 and the C-141, it can only carry half the
passengers of the Starlifter but will fit bulkier cargo. Where the
Globemaster shines however is on small runways where its reversible
engines add a high degree of flexibility.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image7.jpg" style="width:6.08333in;height:3.42188in" />

[**C-130 Hercules**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-130.htm)

The ubiquitous Hercules is the mainstay of the tactical transport fleet.
In all, over 40 models of this aircraft were used by the USAF, many of
them detailed at the link above or [here](http://www.c-130.net/), or on
the [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lockheed_C-130_Hercules). Only
counting C-130 transport variants, the USAF in Northern Fury operate
about 670, C-130E/H/H3 and several other minor versions in 32 regular,
20 ANG, and 16 reserve Squadrons. Squadron size varies from 4 to 24 with
most being 8-12 aircraft. Further, there are 37 KC-130F and 14 KC-130R
refueling tanker variants in the ANG and another 24 KC-130T tankers in
the Air Reserve. There are many more C-130s in storage and the
production line at Lockheed still produce the Hercules for use in over
60 different countries. Specialty versions will be discussed in other
areas.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image8.jpg" style="width:6.125in;height:4.11409in" />

[**C-9A Nightingale**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-9.htm)

Based on the standard DC-9 passenger liner, [19
were](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McDonnell_Douglas_C-9) converted for
medical transport. Designed to carry up to 40 litter patients or the
same number of ambulatory, or various combinations of the two, this is
the only aircraft in the USAF specifically designed for this role. These
aircraft are based at Scott AFB, Ramstein AB, Germany and Yokota AB,
Japan in six Aeromedical Evacuation Squadrons (AES). The USN also
operate 29 C-9B Skytrain II passenger/transports. A total of 3
additional VC-9C executive transports are operated by the USAF.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image9.jpg" style="width:5.64583in;height:3.33781in" />

[**C-12 Huron**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-12.htm)

The USAF operates 44 of this civilian pattern twin engine Beechcraft in
the transport version, although there are several other versions of this
same aircraft in use in the Coast Guard, Navy, Army and in the USAF
itself. There are no C-12 Squadrons as they are distributed through
various bases and commands for general use.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image10.png" style="width:4.46875in;height:3.19196in" />

[**C-20**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-20.htm)

For VIP transport the USAF also uses a fleet of 13 Gulfstream III and IV
executive jets out of Andrews AFB, Ramstein AB Germany, Guam and Yakota
AB Japan. The USN, USMC and US Army also operate a fleet out these
aircraft around the world.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image11.jpeg" style="width:4.38542in;height:2.92361in" />

[**C-21**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-21.htm)

A fleet of 78 Learjet 35s augment both the VIP transport and medical
evacuation fleets. Dispersed world wide for general use these aircraft
are managed by two regular and one ANG squadrons in the 375<sup>th</sup>
Air Mobility Wing based at Scott AFB, IL. Most numbered Air Force level
commanders have these aircraft available for rapid world wide transport.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image12.png" style="width:4.40625in;height:3.018in" />

[**C-22**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-22.htm)

The Air National Guard operate 3 of these Boeing 727 aircraft for
general transport. Based at Andrews AFB MD they are flown by
201<sup>st</sup> Airlift Squadron ANG.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image13.jpeg" style="width:4.375in;height:2.89618in" />

[**C-23 Sherpa**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-23.htm)

18 of these light transport aircraft is based at Zweibruken AB Germany
providing rapid distribution of goods throughout Europe
([EDSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Short_C-23_Sherpa) European
Distribution System Aircraft). The US Army National Guard also use a
fleet of 44 of these aircraft and it is the only cargo aircraft the Army
flies.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image14.jpg" style="width:4.1875in;height:2.0339in" />

[**C-26**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-26.htm)

The Air National Guard operates 40 SA227 Metroliners of three different
types for general transport with limited medical evacuation as a
secondary role. These are based in most ANG wings and are not assigned
to any particular squadron. The USN and US Army also operate C-26
aircraft.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image15.jpg" style="width:4.10417in;height:2.20153in" />

[**C-27A**](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/c-27.htm)To fill the role
of a rugged medium lift transport the USAF procured 10 Italian G.222 to
operate out of Howard AFB Panama. They are operated by 310<sup>th</sup>
Airlift Squadron who also operate 6 C-130Hs.

<img src="/assets\images\nato\us\air\tankers-transports\image16.jpeg" style="width:4in;height:2.7144in" />

**[CRAF](https://fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/craf.htm) Civilian Reserve
Air Fleet**

This is a system of mobilizing commercial aircraft to meet military
requirement. A complex and heavily politicized scheme but in an
emergency, as demonstrated by the Gulf War, significant airlift
resources are placed at the disposal of AMC. About 6-700 passenger
airliners were committed to this program in 1994 for both cargo and
passenger lift.

<https://fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL33692.pdf>

<http://www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a455911.pdf>
