**<u>Northern Fury \#19 – Decapitation</u>**

**<u>AAR by fitzpatv, Jan 2022</u>**

First of all, may I wish you all a happier New Year than the last two
and, indeed, the fictitious one described in these AARs!!

In the latest instalment, the USN attempts to strike Soviet Headquarters
and communications centres in Iceland – hence the title. To do this,
they have the Eisenhower and Vinson task groups, less a number of ships
which have been detached for re-supply or repair. The latter are under
AI control, but can in practice be safely left to their own devices, as
no harm will come to them.

What remains consists of two carriers, four cruisers, five destroyers
and frigates, five more of the latter in a separate group to the SW of
Iceland and the SSNs Scranton and San Juan. There are also some Hornets,
Sentries and tankers based in Greenland and a Dragon Lady flying out of
Goose Bay.

Quite a lot of aircraft are available, but the first strike can carry a
maximum of 12 HARMs, 18 AGM-84s, 22 Paveways, 52 Mk82 iron bombs and 24
TALDs. As sending planes with Paveways or conventional bombs against
Gargoyle sites is suicide, your options are distinctly limited. There
are also severe constraints on re-loads for any second attempt. Supplies
of air-to-air missiles are also somewhat limited, though you do have
adequate numbers of the all-important Phoenixes. Happily, you are
authorised to use up to 40 TLAMs but, as you find-out just after the
game has started, these have to come from your surface ships, not your
subs.

The Soviets are not quite as formidable as they were but, in theory at
least, there are plenty of SAM sites and, as before, their CAP never
stops coming. They also have a squadron of surface warships in Faxafloi
Bay, W of Reykjavik and there are a few SSNs on the prowl to keep your
ASW units honest.

I did a lot of thinking and planning before starting the scenario and
came-up with a co-ordinated strike, aimed at having the AGM-84s and
TLAMs arrive at much the same time, preceded by a volley of HARMs and
with some TALDs released to create confusion. I set-up a reference point
just out-of-range of the Keflavik Gargoyles and the idea was for my
strike Hornets to come-in low at 300’, accelerating to Afterburner as
they passed this point for minimum exposure to danger as they closed to
the 55nm range of the SLAMs. A selection of targets is marked on the map
and I decided to split my munitions between the 76th Guards Airborne HQ,
Military Government HQ, GRU HQ and HQ Staff Quarters, all around
Keflavik. An old adage comes to mind…

First contact with the enemy. As my Phoenix fighters were taking-off to
clear the airspace, followed by several SEAD Prowlers, three aggressive
Foxhounds made a run at the exposed group of light warships headed by
the Canadian frigate Algonquin. Before CAP could intervene, they had
destroyed all four of that force’s ASW choppers, putting me 20VP down.
Phoenixes flew, but the first several missed as the Russians got lucky
and continued, wading into other vulnerable support aircraft. After all
my considered thought, this was a real kick in the teeth and, contrary
to my normal practice, I conceded defeat and started again. This is how
the re-match went…

04:00Z 23/2/94 : This time, I immediately moved all at-risk planes out
of the way. Even forewarned, I still lost a Seasprite to the MiGs. My
fighters had better luck than hitherto and destroyed the Foxhounds, a
Flanker and a Fulcrum without further loss, but these five fighters
somehow counted for no more than the chopper in the VP stakes (5-1
again).

The Algonquin group’s woes were far from over and, indeed, they had
really been hung out to dry. As my strike assembled, an Oscar II
unleashed its 24 Shipwrecks at the hapless ships, which were hurrying
back towards the Vinson at Flank. I sent-in every available fighter on
Afterburner and, together with the SAMs, managed to down 21 of the
missiles, but the other three got through and sank the American frigate
De Wert, the Canadian Toronto and the seemingly cursed Spanish Numancia,
which never survives a scenario. So I lost 20 more VP for choppers,
anyway, though the ships themselves were worth nothing?!. Judging by the
Message Log, I wasn’t especially unlucky here – there were just too many
Shipwrecks for the defences to handle. I heard later that the frigates
had been detached to intercept Soviet supply ships W of Iceland, but
that wasn’t going to happen now.

Grimly, I sent the strike in. More Russian fighters intervened, but were
engaged by the escort and two Foxhounds, a Flanker and two Fulcrums were
downed for one Hornet – again even. The four HARM Hornets from Vinson
managed to take-out a Big Back radar and a Big Cap jamming vehicle, but
these scored no points. The AGM-84 strike was a fiasco, with the planes
going Bingo Fuel just before they could fire, mainly because they had
gone-in too low at Afterburner. Having two Viking tankers in support
made little difference, though they did help the attack planes get home.
Meanwhile, some Tomcats released a flock of TALDs from just outside
Gargoyle range but, as usual, this was a waste of time as they were
ignored and petered-out. Thankfully, the TLAMs from the fleet saved the
day, surprisingly overloading the defences and wrecking the 76th Guards
Airborne HQ for 15VP and the Military Government building for 10 (not
the most generous of awards). Oddly, they were only opposed by Grisom
SAMs and ZSU-23s and I could probably have used them to destroy several
other targets as well – but I wasn’t to know.

Ironically, a briefing then appeared, detailing what the Priority
Targets were. I’d forgotten that I was supposed to wait until 06:00, not
that it really made any difference.

05:00 : A Sierra I SSN appeared N of the destroyer Ray in the Eisenhower
group and was sunk by a Sea King from the carrier for a welcome 15VP.

Another briefing suggested that Keflavik’s runway was at least
temporarily out-of-action and that the Soviets were running low on
jamming aircraft. It seemed that Anteater’s Revenge had gone rather
better in this reality. Rumour had it that the Soviet carriers Kuznetsov
and Kiev had been sunk, the former presumably by USS Enterprise and the
latter by British subs, but this was unconfirmed.

06:00 : We were faced with a wait until noon before a second strike with
HARMs and the unused AGM-84s would be possible. In the interim, two
Flogger Ks made a run at us from the NE and were downed by Sparrow
Tomcats. The VP schedule made this a nervy fight.

07:00 : A pair of Foxhounds tried an incursion and caused alarm before
being lured into the arms of the Eisenhower group’s SAMs. I hate those
things!.

09:00 : Another Foxhound tried its considerable luck. It took four
Phoenixes to deal with it. Hornafjordur then sent four more Floggers at
us and, this time, luck was on our side, with an AMRAAM Hornet getting
the lot with five shots.

10:00 : A rescue beacon was detected WSW of the Vestmannaeyjar. Sending
a rescue chopper seemed very risky, but I reasoned that fighters could
clear the airspace ahead of her and that I could abort at will, so I
sent an SH-60, two Tomcats and a Prowler.

11:00 : Inevitably, this prompted a furious response from the Soviets.
My leading Tomcat only managed to kill one of an existing pair of
Fulcrums near the islands. The other hit three Flankers and Floggers,
but more were coming, so we had to feed-in reinforcements. Another five
Russian fighters were shot down, including a Flanker that survived 3-4
shots and kept coming in that fearless AI way. The score was now Average
at +38. I resumed my push at the surviving Soviet CAP while covering the
rescue bid, downing another four Fulcrums without loss.

Meanwhile, I had a pair of HARM Hornets attack the Kresta-class cruiser
Admiral Isachenkov and the Sovremenny Vdumchyy in Faxafloi. We scored a
couple of hits and made the ships use-up a lot of SAMs.

12:00 : Tired of just watching, the SSN Scranton put four Harpoons into
a Soviet freighter, the Brava, leaving her dead in the water. This was,
no doubt, the ship the Algonquin group was meant to intercept. A second
pair of HARM Hornets then scored another hit on the cruiser.

Another two Flankers and two Fulcrums tried to interrupt the rescue and
paid the price. After a lot of fiddling about, the Seahawk completed her
pick-up and scored 10VP for the cause before getting home with cover
from the fighters. This was despite two Foxhounds showing-up. Both of
these, along with a trailing Flanker, were downed for the loss of an
AMRAAM Hornet, the Su-27 needing four missiles. This skirmish was
notable for a rare case of TALDs coming-in useful. I’d moved-up a couple
of TALD Tomcats in support and one actually distracted a Foxhound’s
missiles.

I then had a message asking me to decide what to do with the Algonquin
group. Under the circumstances, it was a no-brainer – they hid under
Vinson’s skirts!.

13:00 : The AGM-84 Hornets returned to the attack in a succession of
single sorties. The Keflavik GRU HQ and Comms Centre (15VP each) were
dismantled as the enemy SAMs remained mysteriously silent. Had they
really run out of missiles?.

Switching targets to Hafnarfjordur, we then eliminated the 23rd Air
Assault Regiment HQ for another 15VP. Two Floggers took-off from
Keflavik just as I was about to fire, so I delayed and the escorting
Tomcat cleared them away. The score of +101 was still only Average.

Another downed pilot was reported in an impractical location in Faxafloi
Bay.

14:00 : A Victor III appeared NE of the Vinson group and proceeded to be
very elusive. While I was busy supervising the hunt, a lone Flanker
crept-up on a SLAM Hornet making for Reykjavik and destroyed her.
Restoring order from chaos, I took revenge, but it was annoying. The
Victor’s luck eventually ran-out and we scored another 15VP.

Three more SLAM Hornets then hit Reykjavik and took-out the local Comms
Centre for 15 more VP. One plane was emboldened to fire at the capital’s
Military Government building, but the Russians had Grisoms nearby and
the attempt failed.

15:00 : No more strikes were feasible unless I wanted to risk Paveways
and bombs, so the only ways to score were to sink ships and subs, down
planes and rescue pilots. I organised a chopper with Phoenix, Prowler
and tanker support to attempt the Faxafloi rescue.

Unbelievably, we then heard about another downed pilot just SE of
Hornafjordur. As I’d converted Eisenhower’s ferry choppers to ASW, I had
to send Vinson’s first SH-60 out for another mission, with Phoenix
support. The Tomcat only managed to kill one of the Floggers over
Hornafjordur and a pair of Flankers gave chase, being culled with some
difficulty by CAP. I aborted the SAR mission.

A Sierra II then popped-up N of the Vinson group, to be fairly easily
sunk by the destroyer Foster’s Seahawk.

16:00 : Absurdly, the Russians blasted the poor soul floating in
Faxafloi with a Styx!!. So much for that rescue mission!. At least it
cost no points…

Needing more points, I sent Tomcats to cull Russian aircraft, clobbering
a Fulcrum and three Flankers towards Hornafjordur, then a Flogger over
the airfield.

17:00 : Scranton closed-with and sank the crippled MV Brava with
torpedoes for 10 more VP as we cleared the airspace for the USAF, but
the final score of +160 was still just Average.

In total, NATO lost three frigates, three Hornets and five choppers. The
USSR lost 3 SSNs, a freighter, 4 headquarters, two Comms Centres, a
radar, a jammer, 10 Foxhounds, 17 Flankers, 11 Fulcrums and 12 Flogger
Ks. Overall, I wasn’t too dissatisfied with my efforts in this game, but
I’m still mystified by the Soviet SAMs’ behaviour. Were they out of
missiles or what??!...
