**<u>Caribbean Fury \#4 – Show of Force</u>**

**<u>Summary by fitzpatv, Oct 2022</u>**

The US has detected a Soviet base at Manodez airport in Eastern
Venezuela. While unwilling to provoke the Venezuelans into entering the
war, they aim to send them a strong signal and thwart Soviet plans by
mounting a raid on the base using Stealth aircraft. Targets include
recon and ELINT planes, some Foxbat fighters and an intelligence complex
located on the site. There is also a covert operations centre nearby,
but this is surrounded by civilian housing and collateral damage is to
be avoided. It is believed that the base’s prime function is to locate
shipping and pass intel to Soviet subs.

A heavy emphasis is placed on keeping the strike force undetected. While
this makes sense in terms of preventing it from being intercepted en
route, it is hard to understand the rationale for this potentially
costing the player VP. After all, if the airbase has been hit with
missiles and, especially, if the strike forces loses any planes, are the
Venezuelans going to be left in much doubt as to who was responsible?.

The strike is to be preceded by a recon flight by an SR-71 Blackbird,
which has to fly all the way from Beale AB in California and requires
KC-135Q tankers for refuelling (needed every four hours or so).

A total of 16 F-117A Night Hawks, based at Roosevelt Roads in Puerto
Rico, are available for the strike, along with a B-2 (the Spirit of
California) which has to make its way from Whiteman, Missouri. All of
these aircraft have pre-set loadouts which can’t be altered due to
turnround times. The B-2 has a formidable arsenal of GBU-36s, which can
launch from 12nm at high altitude, enabling it to stay out of harm’s
way. The Night Hawks have a selection of Paveways and Mavericks, plus a
couple of HARMs.

In support, you have plenty of tankers, an Aries and a pair of Orions
for maritime recon and ELINT and a selection of fighters in Puerto Rico
and Florida. Those at Homestead, Miami include some AMRAAM-carriers and
are worth bringing forward with tanker support as escorts, with the
proviso that they have to be kept out of Venezuelan airspace and
shouldn’t engage Venezuelan aircraft except in dire emergencies. Useful
if you get chased by Foxbats, though. Some F-16s in Puerto Rico have
Sparrows and could be helpful in a tight spot. You also have some
less-capable fighters that are best kept grounded and a few SAR choppers
that you almost certainly won’t be able to use effectively, as they
can’t safely get near Manodez.

At sea, the SSN Trepang is cruising off the Venezuelan coast, but is of
little use apart from ELINT at periscope depth.

The Russians have Foxbat fighter and recon types, Bears, a Cub ELINT
plane and a Tu-154 transport on the base, which is otherwise protected
by several Grouse and Venezuelan Rayrider MANPAD teams. Venezuelan bases
house a selection of F-16s and Mirages, with tanker and ELINT support.
At sea, there are several Mariscal Sucre class frigates (Italian design)
with short-ranged SAMs and decent radar. An array of radars combines to
provide comprehensive coverage across the republic’s territory.

19/2/94 : 14:00L : Studying the map, it was quickly apparent that the
best route to the base was from the NE, coming-in over Guyana which,
unlike Colombia, allows overflight in this scenario. This allows a short
transit across Venezuelan territory and minimal time spent under their
radar umbrella. It makes sense to attack at night and, helpfully, the
timings work-out conveniently for this. I did a series of calculations
and drew-up a schedule which got the strike together where it was needed
at the same time, following on the heels of the SR-71 mission.

At first, despite the presence of an AI-controlled Delta Force team near
the base, not all targets are visible and, while this gradually
improves, the SR-71 flight is needed to get the fullest-possible
picture. The Soviets don’t maintain a CAP, leaving this chore to the
Venezuelans. The latter only have a tanker and a couple of other support
aircraft in the air to begin-with.

I launched the Blackbird and aimed to have it rendezvous with a KC-135Q
S of Tyndall AB to refuel. An Orion and Aries were sent up to perform
maritime recon and ELINT gathering.

20:00 : By this point, a total of six Venezuelan frigates had been
located, maintaining continuous radar coverage across the coast. This
underlined the need to go around them and approach via Guyana, where the
coast was clear.

22:00 : Having refuelled, the SR-71 headed for Martinique with the
tanker, now re-based to Puerto Rico, keeping it company.

23:30 : The B-2 lifted-off from Whiteman, a second KC-135Q from Altus AB
in Oklahoma, all four tankers at MacDill and six AMRAAM-capable fighters
from Homestead. By now, the Venezuelans had a couple of Mirage 5V
fighters on patrol, but these have only basic radar and rear-aspect
missiles and don’t constitute too much of a threat.

20/2/94 01:00L : The SR-71 refuelled again from its attendant tanker
over Martinique and the KC-135Q then went to Roosevelt Roads to ready
for the return flight. The Blackbird set course for Guyana.

03:00 : Flying at 90,000’, the SR-71 did a double-pass over Manodez,
acquiring some useful intel, including the locations of parked Soviet
aircraft. It might have been spotted, as a Mirage headed its way at
Military speed, but the Venezuelan couldn’t remotely hope to intercept
the intruder and gave-up when it crossed the Guyanese border. The flight
neither scored nor cost any VP.

04:00 : The F-117s launched individually, so as to optimise targeting.
Fuel would clearly be an issue, but I had twelve tankers in support. The
six F-16s from Miami, now re-based to Puerto Rico, flew as an escort,
with orders to go no further than Guyana. The Aries remained on station
to confirm the positions of the Venezuelan frigates.

06:00 : After a major refuelling session off the Guyanese coast, the
strike arrived at Manodez, apparently undetected thus far. This didn’t
last as, coming-in at 2,000’ AGL, the Night Hawks began taking fire from
enemy MANPADs.

Thankfully, this was none too accurate and only two SAMs hit, downing
one F-117 for 107VP and damaging another. I’d approached from the S to
avoid the three teams detected by recon, but it made little difference
as, inevitably, there were more of them. The lost plane had much to do
with a problem whereby aircraft went RTB after firing and headed
directly for Puerto Rico, contrary to instructions (which had to be
repeated) to fly to the tankers waiting over Guyana. Needless to say, we
incurred a Downed Pilot and were given next to no time to rescue him,
even if it had been possible.

On the positive side, the strike eliminated all six Foxbat fighters
before they could scramble, along with two Foxbat recon models, three
Bears, a Cub and the Tu-154. Each of these scored 25VP. We also
destroyed six hangars, an ammo shelter, two barracks, a KGB station, a
transformer station, two radio masts, a comms bunker, a command and
control centre and the base’s ATC radar. Most of these scored 10VP, but
one of the hangars was a Venezuelan one and cost us -10. The imperfect
accuracy of our weapons also meant that three Venezuelan transport
planes were smashed, costing a further 30VP total.

The slow speed of the B-2 meant that it arrived later than was ideal,
though its impressive firepower compensated and cleared-up much of what
had been missed by the Night Hawks. By this stage, a couple of Mirages
were inbound and I decided to call-off several F-117s without attacking,
as any damage they might have done was outweighed by the risk of
suffering another massive penalty for losing one.

The Mirages were unable to locate the strike as it withdrew E and, after
more refuelling, all surviving planes made it back to base. Careful
tanker support ensured that the SR-71 did the same.

So it finished with a score of +318, which is Average. If I’d avoided
losses and hit all other potential targets, I calculate that it would
have been +492, which still sounds like no more than a Minor Victory. Of
course, the strike did not prevent Venezuela from entering the war, so
any success has to be considered relative.

Overall, the scenario is a bit of a slow-burner, requiring a degree of
organisation and planning, with a few minutes of high excitement when
the strike goes in. It is hard to avoid any losses or collateral damage,
so winning requires a considerable degree of luck.

Next time, we fight Venezuela for real and, needless to say, with
severely stretched resources.
