**Baltic Fury 4, Ride of the Valkyries.**

**<u>Playtest Report by maverick3320 Feb 2022</u>**

**SITUATION**

Full disclosure: I've tried this scenario a number of times, and due to
a combination of poor operational art and a very Western-like inability
to suffer large losses or send my men into certain doom, I have yet to
complete the scenario. After receiving some expert advice I've decided
to take a look at my strategy and give it another go. Here's how it
went.

My overall objective is to strike a number of NATO targets in Denmark
and Germany, primarily airbases and ports. To accomplish this task Pact
has roughly five squadrons of fighters: Two squadrons of Flogger Ks, two
of Flogger Gs, one Su-30 Flanker G and one Su-27S Flanker B. The strike
/assets are significant. Nearly 100 Fencers and Flogger Hs, along with
some Backfires and Badgers. ECM/ELINT /assets are strong, and Foxbats
armed with AS-11 Kilters and Fencers with Kryptons (in addition to the
older Soviet ARMs) make up a strong SEAD punch. One key constraint is
the timeframe: 16 hours to strike dozens of targets.

My plan is straightfoward: establish air superiority, hunt enemy SAMs,
and then strike fast enough to allow at least some /assets to re-arm for
a second attack, if needed.

0300Z: Ten AS-4 Kitchen TERCOM armed Backfires life off from bases in
Eastern Europe. The intent is to shut down Nordholz AFB, which has only
a single runway and taxiway and is home to Tornados, Fulcrums, and
AMRAAM-armed F-4 ICE aircraft. Hopefully this will eliminate NATO's most
powerful southern fighter base as I'm not entirely convinced I have the
fighter /assets to take NATO on in a fair fight.

0315Z: A massive host of Flankers and Floggers take off over the Baltic
skies, supported by Fencer and Brewer jammers. I've decided that the
NATO front-line fighters discussed in my intel report are NATO's center
of gravity and must whittle them down before sending in any significant
strike forces. With about 40 Flankers and 60 Floggers we are facing a
light squadron of F-16CGs, several contingents of Tornados, a good size
group of F-16A/Bs (35+), and a small number of the much-respected NATO
Mig-29s, in addition to F-104s and Drakens. A squadron of F-15s are
operating out of Norway but my G2 assures me that they are tasked out
elsewhere. I remind him that this is the Soviet Union, and failure is
not tolerated lightly...

0330: The short distances of the Baltic bring together the forces
together quickly. I've decided to conduct two separate fighter sweeps, a
northern one composed of the Su-27S Flanker Bs based at Wicko Morskie
and the Floggers on Gotland, and the southern forces composed of the
Su-30s based in Western Poland and the Floggers at Kolobrzeg. NATO CAPs
are up from multiple airbases; some fancy footwork by Pact pilots bring
the initial northern Tornado CAP into SAM range (SA-10s on Gotland),
where they are both shot down. Over the next thirty minutes the Pact air
takes the fight to the Jutland peninsula. Flankers are used to snipe
NATO air from long range while Flogger Gs try to distract the AMRAAM and
SkyFlash AAMs. Flogger Ks, with the hated (or loved!) AA-11 Archers, try
to turn things into a knife fight, scoring several up close kills
against NATO F-16s. Fencer jammers follow closely behind both forces,
hoping to mitigate some of the effects from the superior NATO missiles.

0430: Low on fuel and ammo, the Pact air sweeps begin to return to
bases. The Pact forces have so far been wildly successful. Losses
include a Flogger G, three Flogger Ks, and a Su-27S Flanker B. In
exchange, Pact has bled NATO: 12 Tornados, six Fulcrum As, eight F-4
ICE, four F-16CGs, 10 F-16A/Bs, and eight Starfighters don't make it
home. Pact AAMs performed admirably, keeping NATO air at bay and even
allowing a quick strike on Rodvig Naval Base by a lone Fencer, hitting
several piers with LGBs. More importantly, while the NATO southern air
was tangling with the Flankers and Floggers, twenty Kitchen missiles
ripped toward Nordholz. As the missiles got closer alert Fulcrums
started taking off and several of the missiles were quickly shot down by
Alamos and even an Archer. An I-Hawk SAM picked off another Kitchen, and
three Kitchens malfunctioned, but five of the massive missiles struck
home on the runway and three on the taxiway. The surviving Mig-29 that
took off was last seen flying north on the Jutland peninsula searching
for an alternate landing area.

0445: Perhaps incensed by the strike on Rodvig, NATO throws 40 aircraft
into the air nearly simultaneously, including multiple F-15Cs, but is
too late to catch the first Pact fighter wave, of which many are already
on the ground refueling and rearming. Fencer Es and Foxbat Bs, having
taken advantage of the scrum to reconnoiter parts of the Jutland
peninsula, manage to draw four more Tornados into Gotland's SA-10
Grumble network, downing all four. The remaining NATO air continue to
loiter over Western Denmark.

0615: Pact Flankers and Floggers, having rearmed and refueled, start to
take off. Wave two of the Fighter sweep hopes to take advantage of the
NATO fighter scramble and strike another blow that would allow our
strike forces relatively clear lanes to their targets all over the
Jutland peninsula. The plan is to have a "left hook" of the Southern
Pact fighters and a "right hook" of northern aircraft, baited near
Rodvig by several Pact aircraft radiating heavily and acting
obnoxiously. Keeping with the theme of taking advantage of fighter
scrums, a pair of Mig-23BNs take off armed with OFAB-250s, targeting the
GM 406 ground radar near Jagel-Schleswig AFB. Currently in the air for
NATO are six F-16CGs, six F-15Cs, 14 F-16A/Bs, and four Starfighters. In
opposition we have 18 Su-30s, 14 Su-27S, 18 Flogger Gs, and 26 Flogger
Ks.

0630: Two hunter-killer SEAD teams take off. Each team is composed of
one Foxbat F armed with four AS-11 Kilters, two Fencer Ds armed with 2
Kryptons each, and two Fencer Ds with Kazoos, targeting several of the
known I-Hawk sites picked up during the initial recon. Taking off from
bases further east of the fighters, it is hoped that they will arrive on
scene just as the air to air battle is complete and the skies relatively
clear.

0710: I launch a strike to deal with a nasty Sea Sparrow battery near
Korsor naval base: six Su-22M Fitters loaded out with Kyles, Karens, and
Kedges (I never seem to know which Soviet weapon will work at any given
time). Another sneak strike of four Fencers with LGBs takes off to start
working on Holmen Naval base.

0712: sweeping in from the sea, the two Mig-23BNs lace the GM 406 radar
with clusters, just in time to start dodging Hawk missiles. Three
missiles end the mission for one of the Floggers, but the radar is
destroyed and the other Flogger escapes east at full burner.

0715: Man, those F-16CGs seem like they are everywhere, and now I've
just picked up another group of six F-15Cs and four F-16s heading in
from the Netherlands. The NATO hordes never stop!

0750: After a furious second fighter sweep the losses are mounting on
both sides. NATO has now lost 10 F-15Cs, six F-16CGs, eight F-4 ICE, six
Mig-29s, 14 Tornados, 32 F-16A/Bs, 16 Starfighters (86 aircraft!) and as
my SEAD teams and Fitters start to creep in, NATO still has 20 aircraft
in the air, including six more F-16CGs and two F-15Cs. Either NATO has a
fleet full of F-16CGs or they are turning those fighters around in a
hurry. Pact is down a Flogger H, four Flogger Gs, six Flogger Ks, and an
Su-27, but the bulk of the fighters are now back at the bases for the
three hour re-arm. I have left in the air three Flanker Bs, four Flanker
Gs, four Flogger Ks, and two Flogger Gs. This simply isn't enough to
cover the SEAD strikers so I'm going to have to get creative.

0814: I chicken out and send the SEAD teams home. I couldn't distract
the enemy aircraft enough to create breathing space. Two more F-16CGs
take off. Ground crew of the year for those guys. Upside: I manage to
trap and kill four F-16CGs by luring them into the Grumble net. Not
terribly realistic, but whatever, I'm still angry with my G2. Downside:
with six fighters left in the air, I now have four more F-16CGs, four
F-15Cs, and thirteen other aircraft charging toward my lines. Time to
boogie home. I'm down to 14 Alamo Cs at Wicko Morskie and one Alamo C at
Miroslawiec; several times I've had F-15s and F-16s evade 10+ missiles
while flying at 80 feet ASL. This could be a problem.

0823: Two more F-16CGs take off. Two F-15Cs and two F-16CGs fly over the
Soviet DDGs west of Gotland and evade every SAM (over 30!) fired. Since
the Pact ships are not under my control, their SAMs simply force NATO
air down to 80 feet ASL, where even my Grumbles can't target them.
Eventually after forty-ish SAMs or so the four craft are dispatched. I
have no fighters currently available. My Flanker Gs are now arming with
Alamo As and Archers only, as the base has run out of Alamo B/C/Ds. A
bit later, a strike package of two Mig-27s with LGBs and two with Kedges
lift off for another (hoped for) quick strike into Holmen naval base.

0945: A message comes across that a number of key Danish officials will
be traveling to Aarhus (in Northern Denmark) and we are tasked with
sinking the ferry within the next hour. At the moment I have
approximately eight fighters ready to fight, and NATO has a standing CAP
of six F-15s, six F-16CGs, and eight other aircraft (presumably
F-16A/Bs) approximately 25 miles from the ferry (which is traveling at
40 knots). I don't think this one is going to happen; I doubt I could
even get a strike aircraft there in 40 minutes even without a CAP
(Swidwin is the closest base at 200 miles).

1002: the four ship Mig-27 strike package targeting Holmen Naval base
leaves a few piers damaged. The two Mig-27s with Kedges would not engage
the piers, even at 12000 ASL, which was lower than I wanted and drew
MANPADs, which thankfully missed.

At this point it looks like I can summon up a credible third fighter
sweep around 1100 zulu. With only eight hours left in the scenario at
that time I'll need to get rolling on the SEAD. I'm hoping that if I can
seriously degrade the remaining CAP that should open things up a bit for
my strike aircraft.

1030Z: a message from some Spetnaz that they have cleared the way for us
to destroy a bridge near the island of Fyn. Google Maps tells me that,
like the previous target, our comradely planners have decided to pick a
target literally underneath the standing NATO CAP. Can these guys read a
map? Thankfully, unlike the previous tasking from higher, this one
doesn't have a time limit.

1055Z: the third wave of fighters lifts off: 10 Flanker Gs, 10 Flanker
Bs, 18 Flogger Ks, and 12 Flogger Gs. The bulk of my ready SEAD forces
take off; it's now or never. The airbases empty out of Flogger Hs and
Fencer Ds; around 70% of my strike force takes off and heads west. This
violates one of the principles of war - mass - in that normally I like
to strike everything hard at once, but I'm doing it for two reasons: 1)
I'm hedging; 2) I don't know if I can manage everything at once. I
usually don't also have strike forces in the air while the SEAD
situation is open, but time is running short if I want to have any type
of follow up strike(s). Strike forces include 12 Fitter Ks, six Foxbat F
(SEAD), 22 Flogger J, 10 Flogger H, 64 Fencer Ds. Primary targets are
I-Hawks, a German DDG parked in an inconvenient neighborhood, and the
nearby runways/taxiways. Due to range limitations Floggers are generally
heading south, Fencers north, and Fitters in the center.

1112Z: A message comes across that a mobile NATO HQ has been located
near Flensburg and should be destroyed.

1119Z: An example of a fairly typical NATO vs PACT air battle. Two
Flanker Gs and Two Flogger Ks vs F-16A. PACT air are on auto attack,
with BVR weapons set to fire at 75% max range. When the first BVR
missile is detected the F-16A immediately takes the fight down to 80 ft
ASL, giving a 30% sea skimmer bonus:

1\. AA-10D, 7% hit chance: miss (87)

2\. AA-10D, spoof

3\. AA-10D, 37% hit chance: miss (55)

4\. AA-7D, spoof

5\. AA-7D, petered out (?)

6\. AA-10D, 7% hit chance: miss (80)

7\. AA-11, 29% hit chance: miss (49)

8\. AA-11, 52% hit chance: hit (32)

Those F-16s are slippery. Will NATO run out of aircraft before I run out
of missiles? I'm seriously considering limiting engagements to AA-11s
only at this point, since I can't even launch the aircraft without the
proper loadout.

1122Z: Message: a Polish Fitter has crashed? Of course, it was one of my
Fitters carrying an AS-9 Kyle ARM...

1124Z: Message: another Polish Fitter has crashed, likely due to
misplaced Polish nationalism. Come on, Poland, Russia has been nothing
but good to you over the years. Where are my political commissars??

1132: The sneaky MOBA SAM section was taken out by a brave Fitter recon
pilot who managed to keep the radar locked on while a barrage of Keglers
finally took it out. Oddly, I couldn't seem to find the platform listed
in "scenario platforms" (or the game platforms, for that matter)?

Side note: I couldn't seem to get autotarget to work on runways with any
of the Soviet guided missiles (Kedge, Karen, etc). That is, nothing
would happen after clicking on the runway with the weapon selected. LGBs
seemed to work fine. Not sure if this is by design, as the Karens/Kedges
both list runways in their target descriptions. After some
experimentation flying around 2000 feet AGL would allow the missiles to
see the target, but they would only manual fire; auto fire still didn't
work.

1135: After downing several Pact aircraft and annoying countless others
the DDG Emden - the aforementioned NATO ship parked in an inconvenient
neighborhood - goes down after taking an AS-9 Kyle amidships, even
before the four "decoy" Kazoos reaching it.

At this point the strikes start. With no NATO air presence the I-Hawks
are left exposed to the Kilters, Kryptons, and Keglers. While they are
fairly effective against aircraft, they really struggle against the
Kilters and Kryptons and start falling one by one. As I'm a serial
micromanager, I've thrown my strike aircraft into three geographic
"buckets" prior to target designation, so my SEAD aircraft are simply
loitering 20km west of Denmark waiting for targets to expose themselves.
A few Floggers are downed by Rolands or Hawks, but the bombers get
through. Kiel, Jagel-Schleswig, and Hosum are the first targets, and the
Pact air works it's way up the Jutland peninsula. Loitering Pact CAPs
look on, with only a few random F-16s to splash while the peninsula
starts to burn. The Danish ports are almost completely destroyed in a
matter of minutes, having taken numerous LGB hits. The bridge near Fyn
is knocked out by a pair of LGBs. Fencers run amok. Returning Fencers
are diverted to Polish airfields - Broczyno, Nadarzyce - in hopes that
the shorter distance will give them time to re-arm for a second strike.
Further east, dozens of Backfires and Badgers armed with iron bombs take
off. I don't know what exactly I'm going to do with them yet, but best
that they get moving; seven hours remain.

1155Z: Two F-16CGs take off from Vandel and fire off seven AMRAAMs,
taking down three Fencers before succumbing to 12 Pact AAMs. I had
already put multiple LGBs on those runways and taxiways; at this point
nothing with F-16CGs would surprise me anymore.

1230: Majority of the first wave attack is complete; I would estimate
around 60% of the targets have been completely destroyed. Enemy SHORAD
has taken out a few Floggers, but overall the strikes were very
successful. With 6 hrs 28 min left in the scenario I have a minor
victory and given the amount of /assets I have remaining, I'm
contemplating a strike on the second German warship detected, a
Brandenburg FFG parked near the Netherlands, although the amount of
AA/SAMs still left over in that area (I've detected at least one Patriot
battery) may preclude it. Fencers and Floggers re-arm and prepare for
Wave two. Now what to do with all these Badgers and Backfires...?

The second wave is mostly mopping up smaller, diversionary airfield
runways. Thankfully few of them have any type of defenses, so my
Floggers and Fencers go about their work unhindered. A third wave is
ordered in, but at this point all that is left is hangers and access
points. A few scattered Drakens, and the last remaining F-15Cs,
interrupted occasionally, but were ultimately dealt with.

1719: The FFG Brandenburg shoots down eight Kryptons timed to arrive at
the same time as eight Kazoos. Those RIM-116s are powerful. The nearest
Patriot battery kills five of eight Kilters, but is silenced by the
remaining three. Ultimately every main target (as far as I can tell) was
destroyed. I couldn't destroy Korsor Naval Base, as the last two "items"
in the base, 40mm Bofors, couldn't be targeted by my LGBs or missiles
and were on the move(?), so I just let them go.

Overall this is one of the more challenging Fury scenarios I've played,
mainly due to the time constraints and number of targets. It's right up
there in terms of most losses as well; NATO front-line air is no joke.
Final score was a Triumph, 1929 points.
