**<u>Bosporus Front</u>**

The Bosporus Front is an ad-hoc formation based on the structure of the
Odessa Military District (MD) with the primary task of seizing and
holding the Bosporus and Dardanelles Straits (Turkish Straits) allowing
free and clear access to the Mediterranean Sea. As an element of the
High Command of the South Western Direction (TVD), Bosporus front will
be working closely with the Black Sea Fleet, primarily the amphibious
and small craft remaining in the Black Sea. Aviation support will come
from the 5<sup>th</sup> Air Army, 19<sup>th</sup> Air Defence Army and
Naval Aviation elements, about 1000 aircraft of all types; however these
aircraft will have many other tasks which will limit their commitment to
support this Front.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image1.png" style="width:4.84375in;height:6.37594in" />

The primary task of this Front is to conduct a Coup-de-Main assault on
the Bosporus straits while laying the groundwork for follow on
operations to capture or control both sides of the Dardanelles, allowing
uncontested maritime access between the Black and Mediterranean Seas. A
key strategic objective of this operation is to knock Turkey out of the
war or at least isolate Anatolia (Asian Turkey) from Istanbul and access
to the straits and Sea of Marmara. This Front does not initially have
the combat power to invest the metropolis of Istanbul, nor is it likely
that it will be able to seize the Dardanelles quickly; therefore,
political and other efforts will be made to entice Turkey’s cooperation.
Should these actions fail to achieve the strategic objectives this Front
will largely disperse with the bulk of the forces being absorbed into
the Balkan Front and key elements such as the Naval Infantry (NI) and
airborne forces being re-tasked to other priorities.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image2.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:3.68889in" />

**<u>Coup-de-Main</u>**: Initially under the direct control of the Front
HQ, the 98<sup>th</sup> Gds Airborne Division supported by the
810<sup>th</sup> NI Brigade and the 38<sup>th</sup> Air Landing Brigade
will seize a beachhead on either side of the northern mouth of the
Bosporus Straits. A critically important element is the rapid deployment
of the Bulgarian 16<sup>th</sup> Motor Rifle Division (MRD) from its
garrison and exercise areas South East of Brugas Bulgaria; this
formation will be operating independent of national control for several
hours as the Commander and key staff as well as some Soviet advisors are
the only people in Bulgaria who know the attack is occurring.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image3.jpg" style="width:5.92708in;height:3.22401in" />

**<u>Link up Force</u>**: The 32<sup>nd</sup> (Crimea) Army Corps will
use rail transport from Odesa and Chisinau to arrive at Burgas with the
first elements detraining within 24 hours of operations commencing, and
the bulk of the force moving east into Turkey within 96 hours. Elements
of 55<sup>th</sup> Artillery Division, the 9<sup>th</sup> Missile
Brigade and most of 46<sup>th</sup> Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade will
join this force. The main task is to drive South Eastward into European
Turkey to link up with the ‘Coup-de-Main’ forces securing the
bridgehead. The lead element will be the 16<sup>th</sup> Bulgarian MRD
which will follow the northern coast and be the main effort for the link
up. The 126<sup>th</sup> MRD has a newly equipped battalion of very
modern T-80 tanks and will follow after detraining and proceed along the
E-87 to an initial objective along the E-80 and finally the
157<sup>th</sup> MRD will then proceed to the final objective of seizing
the Gallipoli Peninsula within 96-120 hours. At the earliest
opportunity, 98<sup>th</sup> Guards Airborne Division and
810<sup>th</sup> NI Brigade will be released to reconstitute and be
assigned to other tasks. 38<sup>th</sup> Air Lading Brigade will remain
a part of the Bosporus Front. Key formations in the Crimea Corps are:

-   16<sup>th</sup> Bulgarian MRD (T-62, T-55, BTR-60, MTLB, BTR-50)

-   126<sup>th</sup> MRD (T-80, T-64, BMP-2, BTR-70)

-   127<sup>th</sup> MRD (T-72, BMP-1/2, BTR-60)

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image4.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:4.27917in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image5.png" style="width:6.5in;height:4.58125in" />

**<u>Follow on Force</u>**: 14<sup>th</sup> Guards Combined Arms Army
(CAA) began mobilizing in the week before the war and its lead
formation; 59<sup>th</sup> Guards MRD will follow 32<sup>nd</sup> Army
Corps immediately rail space is available. The four other MRDs in this
army lack adequate offensive combat power and are tasked with securing
the Bosporus and Dardanelles, releasing other forces to reconstitute and
carry on offensive action. There is no intention of conducting combat
operations through the city of Istanbul, should diplomatic efforts fail
to ensure free passage through that city this force will be tasked with
securing the east and west banks of the Bosporus and key crossing sites;
the 750 guns and rockets of 55<sup>th</sup> and 71<sup>st</sup>
Artillery Divisions as well as the various heavy artillery and rocket
formations will be used to assist this operation. Key formations in
14<sup>th</sup> Guards CAA are:

-   59<sup>th</sup> Gds MRD (T-64, BMP-1, BTR-60, MTLB)

-   86<sup>th</sup> Gds MRD (T-64, T-55, BMP-2, BTR-70, BTR-50)

-   158<sup>th</sup> MRD (T-55, Truck mounted infantry)

-   159<sup>th</sup> MRD (T-55, Truck mounted infantry)

-   180<sup>th</sup> MRD (T-64, T-55, BMP-1, BTR-70)

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image6.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:4.33333in" />

**<u>Front Reserve</u>**: In addition to the 71<sup>st</sup> Artillery
Division which will likely be assigned to 14<sup>th</sup> Gds CAA the
main element of flexibility for the Front Commander is the
28<sup>th</sup> Gds MRD. Although categorized as a status ‘C’ division,
it has a full suite of equipment (214x T-64A/B, \~220x BTR-70, \~150x
BMP-2, 98 mobile artillery pieces etc), however it is normally only at
40% manning. The division was mobilized a week before conflict and with
high priority is fully staffed and undergoing training by the middle of
February 1994. The intention is to deliver this division by sea to ports
within the bridgehead beginning February 18<sup>th</sup> if possible;
this will give significant punch to the landed force.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image7.jpg" style="width:6.5in;height:4.5in" />

**<u>Naval Forces</u>**

With many powerful units of the Black Sea Fleet (BSF) deployed well in
advance to the ***[5<sup>th</sup>
Eskadra](https://fas.org/nuke/guide/russia/agency/mf-med.htm)*** or
Mediterranean Squadron, what remains are numerous smaller missile craft
and amphibious forces to support the land forces in the bid to take the
Turkish Straits. A potent Surface Action Group (SAG, KUG in Russian)
leads the amphibious force providing air defence and anti-submarine
warfare (ASW) support; this element contains the Slava class air defence
cruiser ***[Admiral
Gorshkov](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/cuisers/)*** escorted by
two modern destroyers of the
[Sovremennyy](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/destroyers/) class.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image8.jpeg" style="width:6.69488in;height:2.55889in" />

Two other KUGs provide escort but these consist of much older ships led
by [Kara and Kresta](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/cuisers/)
class cruisers with [Kashin
class](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/destroyers/) destroyers and
[Krivak class](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/frigates/)
frigates. In addition to providing ASW escort these older ships will
from the ‘Gun Line’ to suppress targets ashore while the amphibious
operation is underway.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image9.jpg" style="width:6.3481in;height:4.26389in" />

**<u>Missile Boats</u>**

In total about 30 missile boats will sweep forward of the amphibious
force and ensure that no Turkish or NATO forces interfere with its
progress. Ranging from the older [Osa
II](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/fac/) class boats to the very
capable [Tarantul III](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/fac/) and
the [Bora class](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/fac/) fast
hovercraft these ships should prove dominant in the shallow waters north
of the Bosporus. Joining the surface craft are four of the
ground-effects ekranoplan of the [Lun
class](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/fac/) carrying six SS-N-22
Sunburn missiles each.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image10.jpg" style="width:6.53315in;height:4.00972in" />

**<u>ASW Forces</u>**

The most significant threat to the amphibious operation are Turkish
submarines so in addition to the ASW abilities of the larger ships,
about 20 smaller [ASW craft](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/asw/)
of the Shershen, Matka, Petya, Stenka and Grisha classes are sweeping
ahead and to the flanks of the main formation.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image11.jpg" style="width:6.20573in;height:4.09097in" />

**<u>Submarine forces</u>**

Ten [submarines](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/subs/ssn/),
mostly in the Black Sea but also in the Aegean and Sea of Marmara are
supporting this operation. Some are the very old Whiskey and Foxtrot
class but three are modern Kilo class boats.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image12.jpg" style="width:6.58681in;height:3.57916in" />

**<u>Amphibious forces</u>**

Almost every [amphibious
ship](http://northernfury.us/warsaw/su/navy/amphibious/) that can float
in the BSF is being used in this operation with the main effort of
deploying 810<sup>th</sup> NI Brigade to Turkey’s northern shore. Five
Ropucha class, and five Aligator class ships form the core of the
landing force supported by 20 Pulnocny class large landing craft and
various smaller types. Key to an early lodgment are the numerous fast
amphibious air cushion landing ships, seven Aist and three Zubr class
lead this force but several smaller craft are also involved.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post24\image13.jpg" style="width:6.10034in;height:4.06909in" />
