**<u>Northern Fury \#22 – Vagar Vengeance</u>**

**<u>AAR by fitzpatv, Feb 2022</u>**

It would seem that, despite our successful defence of the Faroes in Plug
the Gap, the Soviets had since managed to capture them, so an
Anglo-French operation is mounted to retake the islands.

To do this, you have two carrier groups, centred on the British
Invincible and the French Clemenceau. The former has all of four Sea
Harrier fighters with a miserable two AMRAAMs each for air defence, plus
seven more with a variety of strike loadouts and some ASW, AEW and SAR
choppers. The French task force is obsolete in almost every sense and
relies on antique US-made Crusaders with 8nm ranged (not-so) MAGIC
missiles for fighter cover and Super Etendards for strikes.

At RAF Lossiemouth in Scotland, you have a squadron each of Tornado,
Jaguar and Buccaneer attack planes, with elderly Phantoms for escort.
The latter have a mix of Sky Flash SARH and Sidewinder missiles and, as
I found to my cost, no reloads. There are three Nimrods for ASW and
ELINT and a pair each of VC.10 tankers, Sentries and Compass Call EW
planes.

As for ordnance, you possess some Martel A.37 and ALARM ARMs with ranges
up to 40nm, but nothing else stretches beyond 15nm and most aircraft are
stuck with Paveways, bombs and rockets. The briefing warns that the
Lossiemouth planes will struggle to operate at night and must therefore
attack near the start and the end of the 21-hour scenario.

Elsewhere, you have a convoy of amphibious ships, lightly escorted by a
few British destroyers and frigates, which will deliver troops by
chopper or boat. Sweeping ahead of them are two more surface forces, one
comprising three weak British frigates and the French destroyer
Primauguet with almost no air defence worthy of the name and the De
Ruyter Group, consisting of five European destroyers and frigates – some
with slightly more encouraging capabilities. Rather too many ASW
aircraft lack sonobuoys and choppers are in limited supply away from the
carriers.

Two diesel subs are near the Faroes, with the British Upholder tasked
with inserting SBS teams in the W of the chain and the Danish Narhvalen
given a watching brief to the SE.

Several teams of Special Forces are already ashore to provide some intel
and targetting.

Against this, the Russians can muster a sobering amount of firepower.
They have no less than three SSGNs (an Oscar II, Echo II and Charlie)
with 40 anti-shipping missiles between them. A squadron each of MiG-27s
and Frogfoots are at Vagar airport for close-range strikes, escorted by
another of Flogger Ks. Also on the islands are a number of ASW, AEW and
strike choppers. Lurking in Norway are Badgers with Kingfish
anti-shipping missiles, potentially escorted by Foxhounds and EW planes
and supported by tankers. Needless to say, there are robust SAM defences
around Vagar, centred on a Gladiator site with a theoretical range of
45nm and an estimated 36 shots. In the surrounding ocean, there are
several ASW patrol craft, a Sierra SSN and at least two diesel subs.

My preliminary analysis of the scenario gave me little confidence that I
could win it. There are no victory thresholds set and with good reason.
Matters are made worse by an inflexible schedule of AI-controlled
Hercules transports flying in towards Vagar to deliver paratroops and
105mm guns. You are warned that losing any of these will cost lots of
points.

I opted to keep radars dark wherever possible to delay being detected as
far as I could, though this seemed hopeless when there was no choice but
to approach the islands. I created ASW Missions for each task group and
sent my one initially available Nimrod to screen the convoy first, then
help the Invincible group once enough buoys were in place. Balancing the
need for speed with the submarine threat, I had my ships move as fast as
they could without cavitating. Recon of ground targets was hard without
much in the way of suitable aircraft and Soviet CAP needed to be cleared
away first in any case.

25/2/94 15:00 : Quickly located a Grisha and three Pauk patrol boats off
the S and W coasts of the Faroes, plus three radars (all off) and an HQ
bunker ashore. I sent my two Sea Eagle-equipped Harriers after the
former, with two fighters for escort, while a pair of Buccaneers with
15nm ranged Martel A.168s and a Tornado with ALARMs went for the radars.
Two Phantoms, a VC.10 and a Compass Call provided support.

The Russians launched large numbers of Frogfoots, MiG-27s, Floggers and
some choppers and mounted strikes against the Primauguet and De Ruyter
groups. The resultant air battle saw us lose two Harriers, one to a 9%
shot from the Gladiator site at extreme range, but we downed two
Floggers, 11 MiG-27s and 6 Frogfoots, at least half falling to the
escorts’ SAMs. NATO air losses mostly score 5VP, while Soviet ones are
worth 3. In the course of this, the Grisha and a Pauk thwarted the Sea
Eagle strike with their Gecko SAMs.

Meanwhile, a Sierra I was detected by the French destroyer Montcalm and
sunk by ASW planes for 10VP.

The Oscar and Echo then opened-up on the De Ruyter group from NE of the
islands…

16:00 : Used a Tornado with ALARMs to tease the Gladiator site into
wasting ammo, edging in and out of its maximum range, but had to
withdraw when more Floggers arrived. It was impossible to get close
enough to fire back without taking silly risks.

Meanwhile, a Buccaneer tried a low-level approach from the W and got
into range to launch 3 A.168s at a Pauk, radar and Gauntlet site, but
all were intercepted by SAMs and the bomber was destroyed on the way
out.

The SSGN attack sank the Danish frigate Niels Juel and the Dutch Karel
Doorman. This cost me 20VP per ship, plus 10 more for two ASW choppers.

A Flogger made a deep raid into our airspace before being shot down by
the destroyer Birmingham, escorting the convoy.

A lone Frogfoot attacked the Primauguet group and sank the frigate Arrow
and its chopper before being terminated.

A late-arriving Shipwreck from the Oscar failed to harm De Ruyter, but
two more struck telling blows, sinking the British frigate Amazon and
the Portuguese corvette Afonso Cerqueira in the Primauguet group. It was
proving very hard to attack when being forced to defend all the time.

With the lack of reloads for the Phantoms, I was now left with three of
these (one already aloft), three lightly-armed Harriers and the
makeweight French Crusaders for air cover, the latter being way off to
the W.

17:00 : The airborne Phantom was then hit by a 30% shot from the
Gladiator when I was sure it was over 45nm S of the Faroes. I probed the
SAM site with another ALARM Tornado and this tended to confirm this
impression. The Gladiator was definitely being economical with the rules
and, to make things worse, hit the Tornado on a 23% chance. I’ve seen
this kind of thing before in other scenarios and it seems there’s a bug
here that needs addressing. Maybe the AI works on the basis of the SAM
site being an imprecise target from the player’s perspective and takes
its best case, but that’s just a guess.

Two Buccaneers attacked the patrol boats with Sea Eagles. The first
missile was downed by a Gecko on a 46% shot, the second was jammed on 8%
and the third and fourth also failed to get through.

While I was watching this, the Echo fired its last six Sandboxes at the
De Ruyter group, thankfully failing to score any hits. Just the Charlie
and the Badger strike left.

I then received a warning that the first high-level paradrops were due
at 18:30 and 19:00. Fairly sure they’d start from Leuchars instead of
just appearing, I put-up two re-armed Harriers in support. On cue, four
more Floggers launched. All three Harriers got drawn-in, splashing three
MiGs for one of Primauguet’s choppers, which got in the way. The last
Flogger was missed by my final pair of AMRAAMs on 56 and 78%, so I had
to lure it onto the Invincible group’s SAMs. Even then, it needed two
shots to kill.

18:00 : A Hercules duly lifted-off from Leuchars, preceded by one of my
two remaining Phantom sorties.

Upholder reached her debarkation zone W of Vagar, which left her needing
to wait 10-15 minutes at periscope depth and turn-off her Dive When
Threat is Detected setting. She managed to survive, despite the
proximity of a couple of Helixes and patrol boats and the SBS men went
ashore for 25VP. I moved two of the three human-controlled teams inland
to do some damage to radars and SAMs. Upholder, her escape route to the
W hazarded by the Grisha and Pauk, aimed instead to slip away to the S.

To help, Primauguet tore-in at Flank and fired four single Exocet shots
at the Grisha. Two were downed by SAMs, the third malfunctioned and the
last one fell foul of two more Floggers which took-off at the wrong
moment. Out of missiles, the destroyer attempted to close with the coast
and bombard some SAM sites.

19:00 : Primauguet’s boldness earned her the attention of the Charlie,
which sank her with six of its eight Siren missiles. Harshly and without
justification, she was classified as a Medium-Value ship and, with her
remaining chopper, cost me 45VP. Again, you only find out these things
the hard way.

The Phantom running interference for the Hercules disposed of one of the
two Floggers currently on patrol, but was left with Sidewinders.

Another ALARM Tornado had been taunting the Gladiator site, but
eventually fell to another probably illegal shot and on a 17% chance at
that. The SAM site still had 12 of its 36 missiles – more than enough
for any Hercules drops. To make it worse, even had I been able to risk
getting close enough to fire my ALARMs, the Gladiator was an imprecise
target.

Left with three Harriers, all needing to land and re-arm if they weren’t
to risk fighting with Sidewinders, plus one Phantom and the Crusaders in
reserve, I could see no way to win the scenario. The incoming Hercules
was doomed. Going on invited further punishment, so I took an executive
decision and aborted the mission.

Maybe I missed something. Maybe NATO isn’t meant to win this scenario.
Maybe a bad workman blames his tools. Regardless, I can’t see any way to
do better here. Like other scenarios in this series, it may have been
designed at a point where jamming and SEAD were a lot more effective
than they are now (except for Fencer Fs) and has been unbalanced by
rules changes. As it stands, you need lots of weapons that outrange the
SAMs or you aren’t going to break them. Low flying was of limited value
here, as most loadouts didn’t support it. My inescapable conclusion is
that the NATO force simply doesn’t have the wherewithal to do the job.
