**Mediterranean Fury**

Mediterranean Fury is a medium sized battleset which is critical to
the *Northern Fury* story and runs in parallel to the campaigns in
central and northern Europe as well as other regions. February 1994
finds NATO in a relatively strong position in the Med; France, Italy and
the UK have forces on higher-than-normal readiness augmenting the US
with a routine deployment of an Aircraft Carrier Battle Group, *USS
Eisenhower (CVN-69)* and an Expeditionary Strike Group (ESG) centered on
the *USS Kearsarge (LHD-3)* and *USS Iowa (BB-61).* More background
information is available [here](http://northernfury.us/blog/post26/).

<img src="/assets\images\aar\mf\image1.png" style="width:6.5in;height:2.74167in" alt="Map Description automatically generated" />

Part of the Soviet effort to disperse NATO’s efforts and weaken its
ability to react to any one situation was to invest heavily in training
and surplus equipment for satellite and client countries. Of course, the
main source of this equipment and the training teams that accompanied it
was the former East Germany. The Soviets were quick to commandeer
thousands of tanks and armoured vehicles as well as hundreds of aircraft
and dozens of small ships, which they then re-invested. Two of the most
important recipients of this aid were Syria and Libya, with Algeria
receiving a lesser degree of assistance. As these nations re-equipped,
the Soviets quietly shipped their cast-off hardware to Central America
and Africa as part of a global plan. Although the Soviets made overtures
to Egypt, Jordan and Tunisia, these nations resisted the temptation and
remained neutral or western leaning..

There are ten scenarios in the series, the first is played from the
Soviet side while the remainder are from a NATO perspective.

1.  Road to Bzantium, Initial Soviet strike seize the Bosporus.

2.  Syrian Surprise, Syria joins the fight and has an initial advantage

3.  Casbah Crunch, Libya launches belated but very effective strikes

4.  Secure the Flank, NATO gains the upper hand in the Eastern Med

5.  Serbia-right, The Balkans become a scene of confused and intense
    conflict

6.  Hammer to Fall, A bid to knock Syria out of the war

7.  Under Pressure, Operations to stabilize the fighting near the
    Turkish Straits

8.  Regime Change, Old scores are settled with Libya

9.  Bulgarian Strike, An attempt to destabilize the Warsaw Pact Alliance

10. Convoy Ho! A continuation of the oil convoy from the Persian Gulf
