**What is a Tank?**

Mar 11, 2022

While the world watches the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the parallels
with the Northern Fury world are hard to escape. However, we don’t want
to be another voice jumping on the bandwagon and will show restraint.
There will be a couple other subjects we post on but one thing that is a
bugbear of our is the ubiquitous journalist’s ability to miss-identify
virtually anything with tracks or a gun – as a tank.

To a journalist it seems that this old but still appropriate chart is
still accurate.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image1.png" style="width:4.57292in;height:6.51641in" alt="Diagram Description automatically generated" />

However, you may want to know a bit more.  If you don't, that's OK just
stop reading now and be reassured that you are in the majority.

If you're still reading, I promise to keep things simple without getting
into minutia. 

Armoured Fighting Vehicles (AFV) come in many varieties, but we'll talk
briefly about 7 types:

-   Tanks,

-   Infantry Fighting Vehicles (IFV),

-   Armored Personnel Carriers (APC),

-   Reconnaissance vehicles (Recce),

-   Self Propelled Guns (SPG),

-   Engineering vehicles, and

-   Air Defence and other vehicles.

**Tanks**:  These are truly fearsome beasts, they have heavy armour, a
turreted gun that can fire in any direction (360\*) while on the move,
are tracked (99% of them are) and usually have decent defensive systems:

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image2.png" style="width:6.27083in;height:3.39583in" />

Without getting into too much detail, all tanks in this conflict are
Russian in origin (both sides) and ***most ***have:

-   a main gun that fires a 125mm shell at high velocity designed to
    punch through the armour of another tank at \~2Km range

-   a fully stabilized turret which allows the gun to fire in any
    direction at any speed

-   has impressive sighting systems and an advanced ballistics computer

-   some have anti-tank missiles as well

-   weighs 40-50 tons

-   has a 3- or 4-man crew

-   can cross almost any terrain with a top speed on roads of
    \~45-60Km/hr

-   can cross some obstacles and breach walls and ditches

-   is fitted with advanced armour which varies a lot between types

-   Some data on the T-90 which is a follow on from the famous T-72 can
    be found [here](http://www.military-today.com/tanks/t90.htm)

**Infantry Fighting Vehicles (IFV)**: Despite being far heavier, more
capable, better armed, faster, and better protected than most early WW2
tanks -- these are **<u>NOT </u>**tanks. They are infantry carriers that
can fight.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image3.png" style="width:6.83333in;height:5.125in" />

These vehicles are designed to deliver a squad of infantry to an
objective while at the same time keeping the defender suppressed and/or
kill other armored vehicles (except tanks... maybe). Once
again ***most ***in this conflict are of Russian origin and have:

-   A main gun, some have two. The BMP-3 above has a 73mm low velocity
    gun and a 30mm high velocity autocannon.

-   the turret is not well stabilized ([US
    Bradly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bradley_Fighting_Vehicle) is)
    but can fire 360\*. So, these vehicles *should *stop before firing
    unless they just want to keep the enemy's head down, hitting
    something while on the move involves a lot of luck.

-   a crew of 3 and room for 7 or 8 soldiers. The guys in the back might
    be able to use firing ports to use their rifles but that is not
    overly effective

-   many have advanced armour and defence systems

-   weighs about 20 tons

-   Russian IFVs can generally swim water obstacles (US Bradly cannot) 

-   cross most terrain with a top road speed of \~65-70Km/hr

-   have a sighting system which is usually less impressive than a tanks
    (except a US Bradly)

-   are usually tracked and can cross many obstacles but struggle with
    walls and ditches (Canada uses
    the [LAV-6](http://www.military-today.com/apc/lav_6_0.htm), a
    follow-on to the LAV-3, which is wheeled and struggles on most
    obstacles but has a top speed of 100Km/hr)

-   Here is some data for
    the [BMP-3](http://www.military-today.com/apc/bmp_3.htm) which is
    used by both sides

**Armored Personnel Carrier (APC)**: Nobody (except the Americans) can
afford to put all their infantry in IFVs so they need a mix of IFVs and
APCs. These are essentially battlefield taxis that are not meant for
heavy fighting. Infantry is far safer outside of them than inside if the
enemy is in sight. These are really **<u>NOT </u>**tanks.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image4.png" style="width:5.47917in;height:3.76042in" />

There is a wide variety of these around the world but once again, in
this conflict most are of Russian origin and the ubiquitous BTR-80 shown
in the photo makes up many of them. Most have:

-   Wheels or tracks but cross-country mobility is the key - otherwise
    it is a truck with armour.

-   they all have weapons but a very rudimentary sighting system - Spray
    and Pray is the norm with older types but some of the newer ones are
    getting pretty good.

-   they weigh in at 10-15 tons, but the armour is pretty basic stuff

-   a crew of 2 or 3 with between 7 & 9 dismounts, firing ports are
    optional and the crew commander may dismount with the infantry.  A
    BTR-80 has a crew of 3 with 7 dismounts, firing ports and the crew
    commander stays in the vehicle

-   speed, obstacle crossing and ability to swim varies wildly. The
    BTR-80 is good on all counts

-   here is the data on
    a [BTR-80](http://www.military-today.com/apc/btr_82.htm)

**Reconnaissance Vehicles (Recce)**: The sports cars of this bunch.
These vehicles are built to be small, fast, and nimble - of course they
need all of that to hide and if seen they have to bugger off quickly or
die. If you mistake these for a tank you should **<u>NOT </u>**be
reading this 

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image5.png" style="width:5.96584in;height:3.97917in" />

Both sides use the BRDM-2, a Russian design which has retractable belly
wheels (just visible), that can drive it over obstacles.  A lot of
modern recce vehicles are simply up-armored trucks, but the BRDM is
still around after 60 years. 

-   Most recce vehicles are wheeled although the US Bradly (M3) is
    tracked (and neither small nor nimble - but potent)

-   most weigh less than 10 tons, the BRDM is 7 and many are lighter
    than that (not the Bradly...)

-   4-man crew

-   the BRDM is armed with a 14.5mm and 7.62mm machine gun, the sites
    will send the rounds toward the enemy, mostly. The armour will stop
    a rifle bullet, usually.

-   speed and agility are what is needed and the BRDM has that.

**Self Propelled Guns (SPG)**: Although these might look like tanks,
they have a big gun sticking out of a round bit on top of tracks - they
are **<u>NOT </u>**tanks. These are howitzers, mortars or artillery guns
covered with armour.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image6.png" style="width:5.375in;height:3.58802in" />

Both sides use Russian designed SPGs but the Ukrainian ones are older
types. The Russians put a lot of effort into firepower so several new
designs like the one pictured ([MSTA 2S19,
152mm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2S19_Msta)). SPGs vary widely in
gun size and looks but remember that the weapon of the artillery is the
bullet - not the gun, which is simply a delivery means.  Some tidbits:

-   The big bit that turns, holds the gun and is on top is a 'cab' (gun
    cabin) not a 'turret'. 

-   SPGs cannot fire on the move, they usually only fire if the gun is
    generally between the headlights but can fire 360\* if needed.

-   Although an SPG can fire directly at a target (direct fire), it
    usually fires indirectly using a distant observer or predicting
    where the enemy is. The sight system is optimized for
    trigonometry based calculated fire, not looking at the target.

-   The armour is designed to defeat an SPGs most consistent threat,
    shrapnel from enemy artillery. It will stop small arms as well but
    nothing bigger.

-   SPGs weight depends on the gun size mostly, a MSTA is 42 tons, some
    are less than 15, the German Panzer-Howitzer 2000 is an eye-watering
    56 tons.

-   Road and cross-country speed should be almost irrelevant but 40-60
    KPH is normal. Critical speeds are 1) time into action, 2) rate of
    fire, 3) time to get out of action - you don't want to hang around
    once you start firing or things will get unpleasant.

**Engineering Vehicles**: If it is big, ugly and has all sorts of bits
hanging off it - that's an engineering vehicle. These are usually built
on tank chassis, travel with tanks and have similar protection - but
are **<u>NOT </u>**tanks.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image7.png" style="width:6.48958in;height:4.25768in" />

Once again, both sides in this conflict use Russian vehicles.  These
guys have all sorts of variations and jobs, bridge layers, mine layers
and Armored Engineer Vehicles (AEV) are the most common. Pictured is
the [IMR-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IMR-2) AEV.

-   These are not generally armed, except machine guns because the
    Engineers didn't want to feel left out and wanted to play with guns.

-   They tend to be slow and bulky but are generally nirvana for Mr.
    Gadget with augers and plows and claws and things.

-   Their job is to help tanks and other vehicles cross obstacles, they
    travel up front with tanks and are called in when the tanks need
    help.

-   Because of the relatively small numbers and critical utility - they
    are on every High Value Target List on the planet.  If an enemy sees
    this thing it will attract a lot of unwanted attention

**Other AFVs**:  There are dozens of these, so this really isn't a
category, just a grab bag of everything else that is **<u>NOT </u>**a
tank.

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image8.jpeg" style="width:6.17284in;height:3.90625in" />

Pictured is a Russian [2K22
Tunguska](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2K22_Tunguska) air defence
vehicle.  Pretty badass if you are a helicopter or any armoured vehicle
other than a tank that it comes across.  A short and non exhaustive list
of other armored vehicles is:

-   Air defence vehicles such as the Tunguska or
    the [ZSU-23-4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZSU-23-4_Shilka) or the
    famous [Gepard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flakpanzer_Gepard).

-   [SAM ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/9K33_Osa)(Surface to Air
    Missile) vehicles. The armour will keep mosquitos out but not much
    else. Mobility is the key and there are a wide variety.

-   [Tank destroyers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SU-85), you don't
    see many of these around anymore, but they are on a tank chassis
    with a tank gun embedded in it (sometimes missiles). They cannot
    shoot on the move and have very limited arcs of fire. Instead
    of *Shoot & Scoot*, their role became *Shoot & Die.*

-   Recovery vehicles, sort of like engineering vehicles - big, ugly,
    lots of bits and **<u>NOT</u>** tanks.  Their job is to pull tanks
    and other AFVs out of bogs and things as well help with repairs.
    John Deer tractors are apparently taking over this role. 

-   Command or observation vehicles, generally based on APCs or IFVs.
    Usually have guns removed and the space filled with radios

-   Ambulances, transport vehicles, mobile radars and other
    general-purpose or specialties. The link is for
    an [MTLB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MT-LB) which is an older
    design Russian APC, but the list of variants is informative

-   Volvo's - **<u>NOT </u>**a tank but could be!

Now just a reminder:

**Tanks**:

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image9.png" style="width:6.17188in;height:4.11458in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image10.jpeg" style="width:6.74746in;height:3.48958in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image11.jpeg" style="width:6.7602in;height:2.69352in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image12.png" style="width:6.69985in;height:4.46875in" />

**Not Tanks:**

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image13.png" style="width:5.77083in;height:4.16667in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image14.png" style="width:6.5in;height:4.875in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image15.png" style="width:6.61458in;height:4.40972in" />

<img src="/assets\images\blog\post27\image16.png" style="width:6.66667in;height:4.16667in" />
