**<u>Baltic Fury 1 – Storm the Gates</u>**

**<u>Summary by fitzpatv, Nov 2022</u>**

**Setting the Scene**

As WW3 breaks out, German and Danish forces brace for the initial Soviet
onslaught in the Baltic Theatre. The Warsaw Pact aims to neutralise NATO
bases around the Danish Belts (straits) and send elements of its Baltic
Fleet through past Copenhagen to the North Sea. Poland currently has a
Soviet-backed Government, which has just seized power from Solidarity in
a coup, but there is still much active resistance and, as the conflict
begins, the Russians cannot reliably use Polish territory. Sweden is
desperately trying to stay neutral, but has allowed both sides to
overfly the country’s Southern tip around Malmo so long as they avoid
built-up areas.

The player must switch sides as the campaign progresses, but starts in
control of the German and Danish forces, along with a small British
contingent. Most of the Federal German Navy is in port and only
gradually becomes ready for sea. Initially, the destroyer Niedersachsen,
frigate Bayern, 3 missile boats (PCFGs) and 2 diesel subs are
operational, with 3 destroyers, 2 frigates, 34 missile boats and 8
U-boats in reserve.

Denmark has a frigate, 2 missile boats and a sub at sea, with 21 missile
boats, a patrol boat and a sub readying, while the British diesel sub
Unicorn is off the coast of Sweden.

Most of the NATO ships are somewhat lacking in both air and ASW defence,
though the destroyers and some of the PCFGs have limited SAM batteries.
Sonar is moderate to non-existent. There are plenty of Harpoons and
Exocets for surface combat, but they are outranged by most of the Soviet
SSMs, the enemy have better sensors and each hit in such a conflict
means a dead vessel.

In the air, the situation is scarcely more encouraging. Only a small
proportion of the NATO aircraft are ready for action and this will take
hours to correct – time you are unlikely to have. The Luftwaffe mostly
relies on Tornado MRCAs, typically armed with Sidewinders or attack
loadouts (though you have some choice in this, with many beginning on
Reserve). They do have a squadron of 20 former East German MiG-29
Fulcrums, along with suitable ammo, at an exposed base at Laage, near
the Polish frontier. However, these are early models and not quite as
well-armed as the newer Fulcrums on the other side. Also at Laage are 20
Phantoms which, wonder of wonders, have a limited supply of AMRAAMs.
Germany otherwise has a plentiful force of Breguet patrol planes and
helicopters. Tornadoes can be equipped with Kormoran anti-shipping
missiles and also HARMs, which potentially gives them decent striking
power.

The Danes fly the F-16A but are limited to using Sidewinders (happily
the all-aspect kinds) and even these are in short supply at the outset.
They otherwise have a few Phantoms and rather more Draken attack planes
(bombs and Sidewinders) and a reasonable number of choppers with very
limited ASW ability.

At RAF Leeming in the UK, there is a squadron of F.3 Tornadoes, which is
scheduled to fly to the German North Sea base of Nordholz. These carry
the Sky Flash SARH missile, which outranges Soviet AAMs (in this
scenario), but has a number of shortcomings, notably that a given plane
can only engage one opponent at a time. NATO has also provided a couple
of Sentry AWACS aircraft and a Hercules transport, the latter having a
special task under AI control.

Scattered across N Germany and Denmark, you have a number of SAM
batteries. These include four German Patriot sites, the others being
either I-HAWKs or limited Rolands and Stinger MANPADs. Most of them are
located relatively far back, with only a few covering Laage and
Copenhagen. Denmark also has two Harpoon shore batteries protecting the
approaches to her capital.

In the Red corner, there are numerous PCFGs (Nanuchkas and Tarantuls)
which have a pronounced range and sensor advantage over their NATO
counterparts. There are less of them overall, but they all start ready
for action. Coming-up behind are a Kynda-class cruiser with Shaddock
missiles, two Sovremenny DDGs with Sunburns and a Neustrashimyy FFG with
the Switchblade SSM. Keeping them company are plentiful numbers of ASW
units, such as Krivak FFGs and Grisha or Pauk corvettes. Two basic
Stenka patrol boats and a Meridian AGI are initially visible, scouting
the island of Bornholm, a Danish possession roughly halfway from Sweden
to Germany.

The Red Air Force is present in enormous strength, with Flanker, Fulcrum
and Flogger fighters, Fencer, Fitter and MiG-27 attack planes and
supporting recon and EW types. At least there are no Foxhounds. Their
AAMs have ranges of 24 to 50-odd nautical miles, which is a bit
frightening when most of your planes have Sidewinders which can fire
8-10!. The Soviets also have Mainstay AWACS planes, ASW choppers and, in
theory, Mail flying boats, though I never saw one of the latter during
the playthrough and assumed that they were limited to coastal defence.

The Kaliningrad area hosts several Sepal SSM batteries, which can reach
the Copenhagen area and basically kill anything they hit. Needless to
say, they have plenty of SAMs and radars, but you would be mad to go
anywhere near them. Gammons make flying E of Sweden a bad idea unless
you can keep low.

Finally, the Soviet Baltic Fleet has a number of diesel subs at sea,
being a mixture of Kilos, Tangos, Romeos and Foxtrots.

Looking at this, I decided that trying to engage the enemy in aerial
combat was a low percentage policy and that it was better to rely on
SAMs as far as possible, at least while their ammo lasted. To
begin-with, the only combat-worthy aircraft were the Fulcrums and
Phantoms at Laage and these would have to be used carefully as and when
they became available. Everything else in the advanced Danish bases on
Bornholm and around Copenhagen needed to be evacuated further W as soon
as possible, preferably to RAF Leeming, while some of the German
aircraft could go either there or to Geilenkirchen, down by the Belgian
border. This definitely applied to a useless squadron of obsolete Alpha
Jets, which were slated for transfer to the Portuguese. The Tornadoes at
Leeming could enter the fray as a group once they had been securely
established at Nordholz.

There had been rumours of Soviet subs in the Skaggerak, between Denmark
and Norway and the Kattegat, between Denmark and Sweden, so I sent a
pair of Breguets to patrol these straits. Some Tornadoes with Kormorans
were primed to hit the Stenkas and Meridian as soon as hostilities
commenced and the Danish sub Nordkaperen, off Bornholm, was also ordered
to stalk the AGI. Our other subs were told to patrol where they were and
await reinforcements from those in port. Everything else was to
prioritise escape, aiming to evacuate to the Skaggerak, get well clear
of enemy SSMs and then block the exit to the North Sea. Hopefully, those
waters would have been swept by the Breguets before they got there and
any battle would then see the Russians at the limit of their air support
and, perhaps, advancing past Copenhagen in ones and twos. Maybe we could
have a replay of Surigao Strait?.

An oddity is that you have some radars on the Faroe Islands and the
Russians have a base at Greem Bell in the Arctic, but nothing
materialised in that direction all game.

**Facing the Fury**

13/2/94 14:00L : About 10 Soviet warships were detected E of Bornholm,
as well as a gaggle of merchant vessels off the Polish coast and a few
others plying the Danish Belts. At 14:04, an Improved Styx missed a
radar on Bornholm and, four minutes later, war was declared.

Spetsnaz began mounting attacks on various NATO installations, notably
at Laage, where 7 buildings were lost for a VP each and 2 Phantoms
destroyed on the ground for 3 each. Enter the wretched Downed Pilot
script!. One of the Phantoms promptly spawned a Downed Pilot, who was
invisible and couldn’t be rescued. This on a German airbase!!. As
regular readers will know, I hate this script with a will, but it was at
its absolute worst in this scenario. Most of my downed aircraft were
over friendly German and Danish territory and there should have been no
question of the pilots being lost on land, still less at bases where
they wouldn’t have been in the aircraft in the first place. Later-on,
the script even generated Downed Pilots for lost planes that had been
unavailable for maintenance, each instance being accompanied by a
gloating ‘EJECTION! EJECTION! EJECTION!’ message which simply rubbed it
in. It happens on sunken ships, too. Given the omnipresence of Soviet
fighters throughout, there was hardly ever any chance of rescuing anyone
and, the one time I did so with an SAR chopper, it was inevitably lost
on the way back to base, equally inevitably spawning another Downed
Pilot. I worked out at the end that the script cost me 85VP in total,
allowing for rescues (equal to losing nearly six ‘major warships’, with
Downed Pilots resulting from 61.8% of aircraft losses) and there is so
little that you can do about it. It actually makes it better to lose the
pilot outright than have him survive the loss of his plane, which can’t
be OK. If there was no penalty for failing to rescue the pilot, it
wouldn’t be so bad. Better still, Bart, please, please, PLEASE remove
this pile of proverbial from all of your scenarios, as it is seriously
detracting from my enjoyment of them. Adjust the VP Schedule to
compensate if need be. Rant over.

The DDG Niedersachsen Harpooned one of the Stenkas for 5VP, as all
fighters at Bornhom withdrew to Vandel AB in Jutland.

A message arrived to say that the Hercules at Geilenkirchen was ready to
take 204 Sidewinders to a Danish airbase of my choice and alleviate the
supply problem. I held-off at first while assessing the pattern of
Soviet strikes. After all, I didn’t need the missiles straightaway.

A German Tornado sank the second Stenka off the Polish coast with a
Kormoran. Meanwhile, Fitters bombed Bornholm, scoring easy VP for the
Soviets. Three were downed by the Stingers that were now the island’s
only meaningful defence, scoring 2VP each.

Predictably massive Soviet strikes now arrived, mostly aimed at the
Copenhagen area, but with some going for Laage. The German Steinhoff
Squadron, named for a WW2 ace, intercepted with such Fulcrums and
Phantoms as were ready, but were outranged by the Alamos on the
newer-model Russian MiG-29s and Flankers and had to do some manual
evasion, Surviving, they scored a couple of kills with AMRAAMs. The
local Patriot battery did most of the work here, but our SAMs were
generally disappointing, especially against low-flying Floggers in
attack mode over Copenhagen. One I-HAWK site there was badly degraded
and we lost a lot of radars and buildings. The Russians lost a Fulcrum
and a dozen Floggers. By 14:41, the Laage Patriot was on 50% ammo and
reloading (which takes forever) and the score was +3, still a Minor
Defeat.

Our Fulcrums were forced to engage some of theirs at Laage, as a wave of
Fencers was coming in behind them. Handicapped by jamming, we were
forced to evade, again avoiding the initial Alamo attack. This caused
the enemy MiG-29s to RTB and we ripped into the Fencers, shooting-down
12, but many got missiles away and more Soviet fighters roared in.

While this was going on, we were informed that the Danish Foreign
Minister needed to get to a NATO meeting at Geilenkirchen. A Gulfstream
at Copenhagen’s Roskilde Airport would take him, with another
transporting his staff later, with deadlines of 17:00 and 20:00L,
respectively. With all Hell breaking loose overhead, the politician was
told to get his head down for now!.

The Niedersachsen and 4 PCFGs were trying to get N via the more exposed
Copenhagen Belt – in retrospect a mistake. Enemy planes and Sepals sank
the German Nerz and the Danish Bredal for 5VP each.

As more Russian fighters arrived at Laage and Copenhagen, the Steinhoff
Squadron reached the end of its ability to resist the strike. Out of
missiles and returning to base, several of them were shot down. Still
more Fencers arrived and battered the readying aircraft (‘EJECTION!
EJECTION! EJECTION!’). The Roland battery hit a few raiders but, by
15:00, we were down to 11 Fulcrums and 13 Phantoms, having started with
20 of each. Most losses were on the ground.

At Copenhagen, I sent in several flights of F-16s and Tornadoes to try
to disrupt the massive Soviet strike and maybe allow the Foreign
Minister to get away in the confusion. The first 3 pairs of Falcons
downed a couple of attack planes but, again, there was another wave of
fighters behind them. Even retreating on Afterburner, we took 50% losses
and I called the rest of my planes off.

In the middle of all this, the sub Nordkaperen caught and sank the
retreating AGI, but the Danish PCFG Rodsteen was lost to air attack.

By 15:00, we had lost 27 planes for 57 Soviets, but our loss of
installations and Downed Pilots made the score -40.

15:00L : Niedersachsen and the surviving PCFG, Seeadler, belatedly
altered course away from Copenhagen and made instead for the more
sheltered Western Belt. Not long afterwards, they fought-off a shoal of
Sepals and Sunburns.

Four German Fulcrums got airborne from Laage, cleared several Fencers
away from the base and thwarted a missile strike. I now realised that
the Patriot’s radar was down. They were then hounded by Flankers with
long-ranged Alamos. Two got back to Laage, one was lost and the other
diverted to Jagel-Schleswig AB, near Kiel. Two Phantoms
counter-attacked, shooting down a MiG-27 with two AMRAAMs and seeing
another pair sail past a couple of fighters, failing to lock-on. Forced
to retreat by more fighters, they fled W.

A Breguet found and sank a Kilo off the approaches to Kiel for 10VP.

By now, the only hostiles over Roskilde were MiG-27 attack planes.
Gambling that they wouldn’t attack the Foreign Minister’s Gulfstream
with cannon, I sent him on his way, flying as fast and low as possible.
A quartet of Danish Falcons moved to chase off the attack planes. This
only attracted four Fulcrums, which came hammering-in, downing two
F-16s. The second pair of Falcons and the Gulfstream were then attacked,
the F-16s trying to lead the Russians away from the VIP plane and losing
one of their number for their pains. An Alamo whistled narrowly past the
Gulfstream as it sped away at 80’, escaping for now. Two Danish Phantoms
moved to distract the Fulcrums and destroyed one of them in a suicidal
attack before both were lost.

While this was happening, I had 3 pairs of German Tornadoes trying to
take the Russian attack planes over Laage in the side but, while I was
watching the Gulfstream, the enemy reacted with a hail of missiles.
Three Tornadoes were lost and the Soviets pursued the others into range
of the SAMs around Kiel, which shot down six Flankers and Floggers and
drove the others off.

Niedersachsen finally succumbed to the repeated Sepal and Sunburn
volleys and went down for 15VP, plus 3+2 more for her onboard chopper
(‘EJECTION! EJECTION! EJECTION!’). Seeadler managed to escape.

More German Tornado fighters reached Laage and, helped by two readied
Phantoms, thinned-out the circling MiG-27s, avoiding the fighters which
came belting-in from the NE. Two Flankers followed into SAM range and
died. Meanwhile, the Danes lost a pair of F-16s as I unsuccessfully
tried to copy the AI’s irritating tactic of turning side-on to ‘blind’
SARH missiles. Another German Fulcrum got airborne and got rid of the
last two MiG-27s over the base. Some Russian planes were clearly
crash-landing on return to base, though this didn’t happen again and
wasn’t on the scale seen in other scenarios.

Three Downed Pilots were picked-up by a chopper and the PCFGs heading N.
Others weren’t.

16:00L : More Spetsnaz popped-up and sank the patrol boat Beskytteren in
Frederikstad harbour, N Denmark.

The Hercules reached Vandel AB and dropped her Sidewinders. This scored
no VP.

With a posse of Russian fighters chasing our lone Fulcrum at Laage,
there was a window to launch the second Gulfstream with the Minister’s
staff aboard. Two choppers also left nearby Vaerlose AB for the safer
Aalborg.

The Foreign Minister reached Geilenkirchen for 25 welcome VP.

The posse were engaged by SAMs, but not before they clobbered my SAR
chopper. A number paid the penalty and I tried to intercept the
retreating survivors with two German Fulcrums. One fired two Alamo A
shots at a pair of reinforcing Russian MiG-29s, which fired back before
turning 90 degrees away. Somehow, this didn’t break their lock and they
shot me down, while my missiles went blind. Can only assume they were
using more advanced, non-SARH Alamos, while I was stuck with the lousy
kind.

Sunburns started appearing over the W Danish Belt, sinking the frigate
Bayern for 15VP. Designating Hamburg-class frigates as ‘Major Warships’
was somewhat dubious, as they are pretty lightweight, outmoded platforms
(no SAMs, apologetic sonar) and Russian Krivaks are not accorded the
same status. Clearly though, the enemy had managed to secrete some
missile boats off the SE Danish coast, despite the flat terrain and the
presence of my AWACS plane and a Breguet on recon patrol. My ships had
their radars off.

Four Fulcrums then made a pain of themselves by intruding into German
airspace, causing me to divert the second Gulfstream W. Three were
killed by Patriots and the other withdrew.

Meanwhile, HMS Unicorn, off SE Sweden, encountered a Pauk patrol boat,
which had evidently detected her. As flight was impractical, I set my
Tigerfish torpedoes to kinematic range and opened fire. This caused the
corvette to flee, but she was soon joined by a second ship, probably a
Krivak. The dance went on, with Unicorn loosing a second Tigerfish. With
distance widened, the sub tried to slip away at Cruise, aiming not to
get the Russians in her baffles.

Two more Fulcrums intruded into the Kiel area. In a dreadful run of
luck, a Patriot battery needed TEN shots to kill one of them on odds
ranging from 30-48% as the fighters mindlessly stooged around, inviting
more missiles. In doing so, it ran out of ammo. In general, the
performance of the Patriot was extremely disappointing in this scenario,
well below the lethality typically exhibited by Gargoyles and Grumbles.
I belatedly limited them to one shot per target and forbade them to
shoot at 4th Generation fighters beyond 30nm.

17:00L : Both the Hercules and the second Gulfstream reached
Geilenkirchen for another 25VP. At +39, the score was Average.

In typical AI overkill, 10 Fulcrums went after one recon Sea King near
Kiel, downing it but losing two of their number to I-HAWKs. Given the
Downed Pilot, a marginally profitable exchange (5-4) for the Soviets.
Really???

18:00L : After a very busy couple of hours, a relative lull ensued.
Unicorn eluded her pursuers, aiming to slip home down the Swedish coast.
Our PCFGs were beginning to reach the Skaggerak, while planes continued
to escape to safer locations. Some of the Fulcrums from Laage ferried
back there from Jagel-Schleswig, but there was little point in the
Phantoms doing so, given the dire shortage of AMRAAM reloads.

19:00L : A Sea King tried to flee Vaerlose, but was spotted and chased
down by about 20 MiG-29s.

In an unfortunate chain of events, two Flankers happened to detect one
of the Breguets sweeping the Kattegat for subs. The DDG Lutjens was in
position to intercept and shot them both down with RIM-116s. Almost
immediately, two Sunburns came her way from an undetected missile boat.
This shouldn’t have been enough, but her SAMs made appalling shooting
and one got through, with fatal results. I pulled the Breguets back,
unassigning them and relying on the many sonobuoys to locate targets for
them. Losing one would probably have cost me as much as the destroyer.

20:00L : A Spetsnaz team was detected near Frederikstad and bombed to
oblivion by a Danish F-16, but it scored no points.

Poland joined the Warsaw Pact at 20:30.

Two Tarantuls, probably the culprits from earlier, tried to rush the
Copenhagen straits. Distracted the enemy CAP with two Phantoms from
Laage, which killed a Flanker and Flogger before escaping to Nordholz.
The Danish Harpoon battery at Naestved then sank both PCFGs for 5VP
each.

21:00L : Polish coastal airspace was freed-up, but we were advised to
stay away. Meanwhile, the Hercules set-off on another supply run.

Despite huge amounts of searching, a Russian SSK evaded detection for
hours and then sank the PCFG Falke in the Kattegat. Scattering other
ships away, I assigned two Breguets. Despite this, the sub then struck
again and sank the PCFG Zobel.

Air attacks began again, with Kilter ARMs fired by Foxbats, taking-out a
radar. Others were turned-off. Fitters resume their strikes on Bornholm,
now defenceless.

Several squadrons of PCFGs approached the Copenhagen narrows. A Phantom
led the CAP away and knocked down two Floggers. Shore-based Harpoons
then destroyed the leading trio of Nanuchkas.

As Kilters rushed in, the AI turned my SAM radars back on and our sites
began taking damage.

Clearly, a second sub was loose in the Skaggerak, despite all of our
buoys and the PCFG Jaguar fell to her torpedoes. A Breguet winged to the
scene of the crime.

22:00L : The sub U-9 made an unsuccessful attack on three Nanuchkas,
which were too fast.

Some Fencers tried making individual runs at airbases and several were
shot down, as were some Soviet fighters at a cost of one RAF Tornado as
these aircraft joined the fray.

The Hercules reached Skrydstrup AB in S Denmark with more missiles.

Shore-based Harpoons sank another Nanuchka. Two more were terminated by
Kormorans and three damaged, one severely. U-9 made several inept
attempts to finish this one off before running out of ammo and retiring
SW.

The second Soviet airstrike began in earnest and fierce battles ensued
over Copenhagen and Laage.

Nordkaperen excelled herself by stalking and sinking a Krivak I frigate.

Enemy PCFGs detected and unleashed a hail of missiles at the frigate
Schleswig-Holstein and PCFG Frettchen. The latter did a fine job of
fighting the onslaught off, only for a second salvo to follow and sink
both ships.

The Danish sub Tumleren succeeded where our Breguets had failed,
locating the Tango that had sunk Falke and Zobel and taking revenge for
an equalising number of points. Subs were having a good day.

23:00L : Another Nanuchka fell to HARMs and Kormorans, but they have
good SAM protection when their radars are on and were proving stubborn
targets.

Remarkably, Nordkaperen bagged a second Krivak I, her third kill of the
battle, exploiting the ship’s lousy sonar.

A Breguet finally found and sank the Kilo that was lurking in the
Skaggerak, avenging the Jaguar.

Another unfortunate occurrence. Two Floggers flew close to the DDG
Rommel, which insisted on turning on her radars, even on Weapons Hold
and firing at them no matter how often I told her not to. She only
downed one and was promptly sunk by another profligate salvo from the
Nanuchkas. There seemed to be a curse on the German heavy ships, while
the PCFGs were getting through safely. An RAF Tornado got the second
Flogger.

More aerial skirmishes ensued, with losses on both sides. It was proving
very hard to get at the Nanuchkas with Kormorans due to the
inexhaustible CAP. Meanwhile, the enemy kept sending Sirens and Sunburns
aimlessly across the map, presumably firing at imprecise contacts. Some
attracted AI-initiated SAM fire which I couldn’t prevent. Our SAMs had
been a major disappointment and I no longer relied on them for anything.
The AI doesn’t have these problems.

**Ride of the Valkyries**

24/2/94 00:00L : Down to one torpedo, Nordkaperen seemed to have been
detected by a Grisha III corvette, which bore down on her at 24 knots.
The torpedo went straight down the Russian’s throat and blew her apart,
making it an amazing four kills for the very modest Danish sub. Perhaps
she hadn’t detected me, after all?. Nordkaperen now had to survive and
headed for the Swedish coast, only for a Grisha II to appear on a
converging course. She altered course to the E shore of Bornholm, waited
for the Soviet to go by and then slipped away.

As an F-16 was lost over Copenhagen while I wasn’t looking, I sent three
more Kormoran Tornadoes at the Nanuchkas, but couldn’t get past their
Gecko SAMs with the first plane and had to withdraw the others as 6
Fulcrums arrived. The escorting RAF Tornado missed its shots at these
and had to run hard to escape. Most of the Russian PCFGs were retiring
E, presumably out of missiles. Not all were, though and one randomly
detected and sank the PCFG Pinguin on her way N.

Two Flankers made a deep incursion towards Nordholz and were eventually
downed by I-HAWKs, their luck matched only by their stupidity (take
another shot at me, PLEASE!).

01:00L : U-28 had been ordered to intercept the retiring Nanuchkas and
duly did so. Four attempts with Seeaal torpedoes yielded two kills. Out
of anti-surface ammo, she headed for Sweden. Meanwhile, the Nanuchka
crippled earlier died of her wounds.

02:00L : Things had gone quiet again. The Soviet missile boats were
definitely retiring E and, so far, the Kynda and her two Sovremennys had
remained SE of Copenhagen, making no attempt to force a way through.

03:00L : Time to liven things up!. Six RAF Tornadoes launched to sweep
away the Soviet CAP, followed by 11 Kormoran/HARM Tornadoes of the
Luftwaffe to hit the Kynda TG. Seven Soviet fighters were downed for two
of ours and the others obliged to RTB. A volley of HARMs, followed by
the slower Kormorans, then eviscerated the cruiser and both destroyers
for a nice haul of 47 points, including an ASW chopper. A follow-up
quartet of RAF Tornadoes covered the strike home and disposed of 4
arriving Russian fighters for two losses. Little chance of the enemy
breaking through to the North Sea now!.

04:00L : Some more Spetsnaz appeared and damaged our I-HAWK near Karup
in North Jutland, so a Draken blasted them with bombs. As small-scale
raids recommenced on Bornholm, ELINT suggested that the enemy had moved
Grumbles into the Polish coastal region, not that we were planning to go
there, anyway.

05:00L : Two Kormoran Tornadoes attacked two Nanuchkas, but they still
had impressive numbers of Geckos (each carries 20) with a terrific rate
of fire (does the AI get an advantage here?). Meanwhile, the Hercules
reached Karup with more Sidewinders and a few Fencers attacked Laage,
losing one to our remaining MiG-29s before the latter were made to flee.

06:00L : Another Fencer was shot down over Laage and our last active
Fulcrum there fell back to Nordholz. A larger strike followed unopposed,
but did little damage.

07:00L : A large number of Fulcrums with bombs and Archers and EW
support hit Copenhagen, but achieved nothing of value and withdrew.
There was no point in challenging them.

I attempted a second Kormoran strike on the Russian Baltic Fleet. Six
RAF Tornadoes made a mess of clearing the enemy CAP away, only getting
three of the initial group of four Fulcrums and losing an equal number
of their own, plus two Downed Pilots. With more Soviet fighters
approaching, I had to call-off the strike. The Sky Flash was found
wanting, with its parent plane’s inability to engage more than one
target at a time and the missiles go blind far too easily. I later read
another AAR which suggested that BVR Engagement rules should be altered
to prevent cranking, which might reduce this latter problem.

08:00L : Instead of giving-up, I changed tactics and sent 4 Sidewinder
Luftwaffe Tornadoes to dance with the somewhat reduced Soviet CAP.
Despite concentrating on evasion, I lost three to Fulcrums and downed
just one in return, but the sacrifice cleared the way for the strike.
Wagner (the composer, definitely not the mercenary company!) would have
been proud as the 6 strike planes wreaked utter havoc. Four Grisha II
and 2 Pauk corvettes were sunk, along with two Nanuchkas, while a Krivak
was seriously damaged and 2 Fencer Es, a Foxbat B and 2 choppers also
perished.

09:00L : A similar follow-up strike encountered only 2 Fulcrums, which
obligingly went RTB. A Krivak III, Krivak II and 3 Pauks were sent to
the bottom, along with a Fencer, Foxbat and Helix.

Two more Tornadoes followed and sank two of four Matka missile
hydrofoils which were approaching from the Polish coast. An escorting
Tornado was lost to a pair of Fulcrums. At +192, it was now a Major
Victory.

10:00L : Not for long, as a Downed Pilot penalty reduced it to +190. The
remaining Matkas advanced boldly towards Denmark, escorted by about 8
fighters. Two RAF Tornadoes tried to drive them off, but again performed
poorly and were both lost for one Flanker. Two German Fulcrums succeeded
in driving the other fighters off, both sides losing a plane. One
managed to close on a Russian Fulcrum via its radar blind spot but, upon
turning-on my radar, I was told that I couldn’t fire for 9.7 seconds due
to the OODA loop. This didn’t apply to the Russian fighter, which spun
round and loosed at me. Something is not right here – is the AI getting
an unfair advantage?.

11:00L : Two Tornadoes took advantage and sank the Matkas, which were
retiring anyway. This took the score back to +195.

The Soviets mounted one more big strike. A few Fitters dropped bombs
uselessly on Bornholm, while the main body made a half-hearted attempt
on Laage.

12:00L : A trailing Fencer scored a point for a ground facility at
Laage, but nothing else happened and it finished on +192 for a Major
Victory – just!. Judging from the scores in earlier AARs, I can only
assume that the VP Schedule has been changed since then.

NATO lost 23 F-16s, 11 Phantoms, 14 Fulcrums, 22 Tornadoes and 6
choppers, plus 69 facilities, 10 AA and 62 SAM elements, 2 destroyers, 3
frigates, a patrol boat and 8 PCFGs.

The USSR lost 51 Floggers, 32 Fulcrums, 22 Flankers, 2 Foxbats, 27
MiG-27s, 14 Fitters, 46 attack and 4 recon Fencers, 3 choppers, a
cruiser, 2 destroyers, 14 PCFGs, 4 Matkas, 5 frigates, 10 corvettes, 2
patrol boats, an AGI and 3 diesel subs, plus 12 Spetsnaz elements.

Overall, a massive scenario which takes a long time to play and is
seldom dull. Typical Fury series, in fact. Next time, I switch sides and
try to take Bornholm for the Russians, which should in theory be easy
enough unless NATO is heavily reinforced. With the soccer World Cup
likely to be occupying my attention for a few weeks, the frequency of
AARs is likely to go down for a while, however.
