**Baltic Fury 5, Ivan's March Across the Belts**

25 Feb 1994, 2000 Zulu, 2100 Local

<img src="/assets\images\aar\bf\bf5\image1.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:4.60833in" alt="Russian paratroopers executed in Belarus dropping with shooting in the air" />

You are the commander the Soviet 38<sup>th</sup> Guards Airborne Corps.
The formation has three Airborne Divisions (7<sup>th</sup> Guards,
103<sup>rd</sup> Guards, and 6<sup>th</sup> Polish) as well as the
6<sup>th</sup> Guards Motor Rifle Division (MRD), two Air Landing and
one Naval Infantry Brigade plus a large slice of supporting troops to
add firepower. 

However, the initial actions (***this scenario***) will be conduced by
your light brigades (and the Pols) to secure a corridor to Jutland. In a
move similar to King Charles Gustav’s March across the Belts in 1658,
you will rapidly seize a series of key points across the Great and
Little Belts of the Danish Archipelago, allowing the two Airborne
Divisions to concentrate on seizing the neck of Jutland while ensuring
safe passage of the MRD to offloading ports on the mainland.

Your deputy handed you a pirated copy of the film *A Bridge Too Far* as
he departed your HQ for the final time. His protests had apparently
attracted too much attention from the Z*ampolit.*

<img src="/assets\images\aar\bf\bf5\image2.jpeg" style="width:6.5in;height:4.33333in" alt="Zubr-class LCAC - Wikipedia" />

**<u>Baltic Fury \#5</u>** Your job is to clear the way for the
remainder of the Airborne Corps, including a Motor Rifle Division being
sea lifted. The target is Denmark with the aim of knocking that country
out of NATO and causing a fracture in the western alliance.

At your disposal are elements of four Brigades including a Naval
Infantry force, two Air landing Brigades and the Polish airborne
division which is small and of questionable value. These /assets and the
forces to carry them into battle are to create a carpet of secure areas
for the remainder of the Corps which will be conducting a daylight
landing in a few hours.
