**Indian Ocean Fury \#2 â€“ Mozambique Madness**

**<u>AAR by HLE Oct 2021</u>**

This is a micro AAR from Indian Ocean Fury \#2: Mozambique Madness,
written in more of a narrative than a proper AAR. Given CMO's modeling
limitations, some liberty as been taken for actions toward the end of
Cazadora's life.  
  
This scenario is vast and complex, with so many engagements and so many
nationalities suddenly thrust into the Third World War in 1994. However,
I wanted to share the story of one such engagement in a massive global
conflict:  
  
The most heroic downfall of the Spanish Corvette ESPS Cazadora, a vessel
whose crew will be immortalized as "Los Espartanos del Mar", or The
Spartans of the Sea.  
  
At the outbreak of the Third World War in 1994, the Cazadora was on
patrol with USS Gary and USS Cayuga off the Coast of Somalia as part of
Combined Task Force 150 (CTF 150), an Anti-Piracy force protecting
merchant shipping.

As with the rest of the world, major attacks caught these three ships
completely by surprise, with word coming in of Soviet Bloc and Allied
attacks seemingly everywhere on the planet, including in their own AO.
To name a few, The HMS Ark Royal Group fought off a pair air raids
launched against it by Mozambique and Madagascar, losing two Sea
Harriers in the process. Kenya came under surprise attack from Tanzania
and Uganda, with the Kenyan Air Force fighting back hard, launching
small airstrikes against Entebbe Mwanza Airports, destroying several
fighters on the ground, and engaging in Air-to-Air Combat with Ugandan
MiGs, with losses heavy on both sides. The Small Kenyan Navy also
successfully sank a handful of Tanzanian warships with missiles and
guns, and successfully destroying several of their coastal radars with
rapid offshore raids. Also HMS Trenchant, a Trafalgar Class Submarine,
was able to find and sink two Soviet Warships with her Harpoons and
Torpedoes.  
  
Back to the coast of Somalia. Allied Command order that NATO forces
primarily gather at a rally point near the Horn of Africa for an assault
on the Soviet held island of Socotra. However, Intelligence intercepts
showed clearly that the Soviets were advising and coordinating a massive
outbreak of Somaili Pirates against merchant traffic in the area.  
Only ESPS Cazadora, USS Gary and USS Cayuga were in the area and had to
do what little they could to defend innocent sailors on the high seas
from these Soviet Sponsored Pirates. This was not an easy task.  
  
USS Cayuga was only an LST with no offensive capability of her own, and
thus had to rapidly depart the area for the rally point, as she would be
needed for the assault of Socota.  
  
That left Gary and Cazadora. They were not very close to each other, and
only Gary had air support, with her pair of Seahawk Helicopters, but the
only weapons they could use against the pirates were a handful of
Penguin Missiles. Meanwhile Gary had four Harpoon Missiles, and 76mm and
25mm guns for Anti-surface combat, while Cazadora had 8x Harpoon
missiles as well as a 76mm Gun and two 40mm Bofors mounts.  
  
At first this seemed like it might be enough, but as Gary was engaging a
pair of Pirate ships in the open ocean, radars picked up dozens of craft
pouring out of Somaili ports. Far more than ether vessel could hope to
handle.  
Gary was the first to engage in a major battle with the pirates, coming
out unscathed having sunk 4 boats, but had expended all of its 76mm
ammunition, deeming the Harpoons not worth the expenditure. The
Commander of the Gary elected to disengage and try to protect merchants
more northward while en-route to the rally point.  
  
As for ESPS Cazadora, She had not yet engaged any of the pirates, and
her commander was unsure as to how to proceed, given the massive number
of contacts and limited weaponry he had at his disposal.  
  
His mind was made up for him when his radioman reported receiving a
panicked distress call from a Large Container Ship to the southwest of
her position. Cazadora's commander instantly made the decision to come
to her aid, especially since there wasn't any other known merchants in
the area. He ordered the Cazadora to the Container ship at flank
speed.  
  
Upon receiving more panicked radio transmissions from the stricken ship,
claiming she is being swarmed by several pirate ships, raking the vessel
with Machine Guns and RPGs, Caradoza's commander made the decision to
use his Harpoon missiles against the pirates, with targeting help from
one of Gary's Helicopters.  
  
All 8 missiles were used, with 4 hitting the pirate ships. The reprieve
for the container ship was only temporary as more pirates closed in
rapidly. Cazadora's commander pressed on.  
  
Upon coming within gun range, Cazadora opened fire with her 76mm, and
once in range, 40mm guns. Still at Flank speed, she charged into the
melee blasting pirates all around her, sinking several, but taking minor
damage from RPG fire.  
  
Nonetheless, the immediate threat to the Container Ship was neutralized,
with the one remaining pirate ship having decided to run for home. By
now, Cazadora had expended all of her weaponry: Harpoons, 76mm shells,
40mm shells. She had also taken a couple minor hits to her
superstructure. The container ship was damaged severely, with wounded
onboard, but able to make a slow speed under her own power.  
  
Cazadora's commander was determined to escort this vessel out of danger.
After a short period though, danger arrived. More pirate vessels, at
least a dozen, had been detected bearing down on Cazadora and the
Container ship.  
  
Cazadora's captain radioed to the Captain of USS Gary, requesting
support. Gary's captain promised to race to the area as soon as he
could, but the distance was great at this time. The only immediate help
he could provide was a Seahawk helo with Gary's last Penguin missile.
This helo promptly destroyed one of the pirate ships, and remained on
station overhead, reporting on the situation back to Gary.  
  
Cazadora's captain made the desperate decision to use his last remaining
weapons: Sea Sparrow SAMs were switched to surface mode, and the ASW
Torpedoes would attempt to be used.  
  
The pirates came on in at high speed. Cazadora's captain fired off Sea
Sparrows rapidly, but several missed, only destroying two pirate ships,
it was not long before all of those were exhausted. The ASW Torpedoes
were equally ineffective, unable to detect any signature of the pirates
to home in on.  
  
Cazadora's captain got on the Ship's announcement system and stated the
following to his crew, which was also picked up via radio by the
Helicopter from Gary:  
  
  
***"Gentlemen. Our Situation is desperate. Our beloved ship has
exhausted all of her munitions and the damned pirates are still coming.
The Container ship is still in danger, and we are the only ones close
enough to help. The American Frigate Gary is on her way, but I do not
believe she will arrive for some time.  
  
Today's events have come as a total shock to all of us, and I know all
of you, myself included, are concerned about the well being of our
families and loved ones back home. But the fact of the matter is that
the Third World War has begun, whether we like it or not. We did not
start this war, but we are now fully in it.  
  
My intention is to draw the pirates away from the container ship for as
long as we can. All hands prepare for possible boarding action. We will
protect those civilians for as long as possible. No matter what happens,
I am sure none of you will ever be forgotten."***

Cazadora's captain fully meant it. He ordered his ship northward toward
the pirates, and as expected they all swarmed his vessel.  
  
As the unarmed Helo circled above, out of small arms and RPG range, it's
crew observed a most horrific battle.  
Cazadora maneuvered aggressively, attempting to ram some of the pirate
ships without success, her crew were now on the decks, fighting with
what small arms they could muster. The pirates showed no mercy, dozens
of RPGs were fired a Cazadora, with several scoring hits. Early in the
fight, the ship's radio masts were destroyed, so all remaining contact
other than visual was lost with the corvette.  
  
Approximately 10 minutes later, an RPG hit from close range seemed to
damage Cazadora's propulsion, and the ship slowly came to a halt.  
  
Then in a scene straight out of the 18th century, several pirate ships
closed on the Cazadora, and a furious melee broke out. Some of
Cazadora's sailors were cut down by Machine Gun and AK 47 fire, but at
least a couple sailors successfully killed pirates and started using
their AK 47s against them.  
  
This was apparently enough for the pirates to back off, as well as the
fact that Cazadora now seemed to be listing to starboard. The remaining
pirate vessels, now under long range Harpoon attack from Gary, pummeled
Cazadora with RPGs and Machine Guns. It was obvious to all now that
Cazadora would sink, and she did so a few minutes later.  
  
Only 2 or 3 survivors were seen in the water by Gary's helicopter, and
they were rapidly machinegunned by the pirates.  
  
Shortly afterward, the pirates swarmed the Container ship, and using
more heavy weaponry (no doubt with Soviet training) were able to damage
the merchant ship enough that they were forced to abandon ship. The
handful of surviving sailors were similarly murdered by the pirates.  
  
After the Pirates left the area, USS Gary arrived and searched, with no
success for Survivors of ether Cazadora or the container ship. Both
vessels were lost with all hands.  
  
While this story would be lost in the short term given the global
conflict, it would become known around the world as a most inspiring
story of self-sacrificing heroism against great odds. The Entire crew of
ESPS Cazadoza would Posthumously be awarded Spain's highest honor, the
Royal and Military Order of Saint Ferdinand, as well as several
posthumous decorations from several Allied Nations.
